--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
In the matter of an application for leave to
appeal against the judgment dated
08/11/2011 of the Civil Appeal
High Court of Kurunegala in the case
No. NWP/HCCA/KUR/120/2004(F)
01.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Tilakaratna
Banda
Waraddana, Wellawa.
02.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Punchiralage
Ran Banda
Waraddana, Wellawa.
S.C. Appeal No. 105/2012 Plaintiffs
S.C.(HC) CALA Application
Vs.
No. 532/11
01.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Subarath
Menike
Civil Appeal, High Court of NWP
Rangama, Wellawa.
Kurunegala Appeal No.
NWP/HCCA/KUR/120/2004(F)
02.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Punchi Menike
Hunupola.
DC Kurunegala Case No.
03.Hithihamy Mudiyanselage Sittamma
5094/L/96
Basnayake
“Mawatte”, Deliwala, Rambukkana.
04.Hithihamy Mudiyanselage Pemawathi
Wickremaratne
No. 121, Municipal Road,
Matale
Page 1 of 10

--- Page 2 ---
05.Alkegama Alahakoon Mudiyanselage
Wimala Panamaldeniya Kaluhendiwela
No.119, Wadakada, Pothuhera
Defendants
And between
01.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Subarath
Menike
Rangama, Wellawa.
02.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Punchi Menike
Hunupola.
03.Hithihamy Mudiyanselage Sittamma
Basnayake
“Mawatte”, Deliwala, Rambukkana.
04.Hithihamy Mudiyanselage Pemawathi
Wickremaratne
No. 121, Municipal Road,
Matale
1st to 4th Defendants-Appellants
Vs.
01.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Tilakaratna
Banda
Waraddana, Wellawa.
02.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Punchiralage
Ran Banda
Waraddana, Wellawa.
Plaintiff-Respondents
Page 2 of 10

--- Page 3 ---
05.Alkegama Alahakoon Mudiyanselage
Wimala Panamaldeniya Kaluhendiwela
No.119, Wadakada, Pothuhera
5th Defendant-Respondent
AND NOW BETWEEN
01.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Tilakaratna
Banda
Waraddana, Wellawa.
1st Plaintiff-Respondent-
Appellant
02.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Punchiralage
Ran Banda (Deceased)
Waraddana, Wallawa.
02(A). Jayasundara Mudiyanselage
Podimenika (Deceased)
Waraddana, Wellawa.
02(A)(1). Hitihamy Mudiyanselage
Abeyratne Bandara
Waraddana, Wellawa.
Substituted 2nd Plaintiff-Respondent-
Appellant
Vs.
01.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Subarath
Menike
Rangama, Wellava.
02.Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Punchi Menike
Hunupola.
Page 3 of 10

--- Page 4 ---
03.Hithihamy Mudiyanselage Sittamma
Basnayake
“Mawatte”, Deliwala, Rambukkana.
04.Hithihamy Mudiyanselage Pemawathi
Wickremaratne
No. 121, Municipal Road,
Matale
1-4 Defendant-Appellant-
Respondents
05.Alkegama Alahakoon Mudiyanselage
Wimala Panamaldeniya Kuluhendiwela
No.119, Wadakada, Pothuhera.
5th Defendant-Respondent-
Respondent
Before: Hon. S. Thurairaja, PC, J.
Hon. A.H.M.D. Nawaz, J.
Hon. Janak De Silva, J.
Counsel: Chula Bandara with Lakmini Edirisinghe for the Plaintiff-Respondent-
Appellants
Lakshman Perera P.C. with Tharika Jinadasa for the 1st Defendant–
Appellant-Respondent Instructed by Niluka Dissanayake
Written 08.08.2012 and 30.08.2024 by the Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant
Submissions: 16.08.2012 and 12.08.2024 by the 1st Defendant-Appellant Respondent
Argued on: 26.07.2024
Decided on: 07.11.2025
Page 4 of 10

--- Page 5 ---
Janak De Silva, J.
The 1st Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant and Substituted 2nd Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant
(Plaintiffs) instituted this action against the 1st to 4th Defendants-Appellants-Respondents
(Defendants), seeking a declaration that the Plaintiffs are the lawful owners of the land
described in the schedule to the plaint, delivery of vacant possession thereof to the
Plaintiffs and damages until possession is delivered.
The District Court entered judgment as prayed for by the Plaintiffs. The 1st to 4th
Defendants appealed.
The Civil Appellate High Court allowed the appeal and set aside the judgment of the
District Court. It was held that the Plaintiffs had failed to identify the corpus as required
in a rei vindicatio action.
Leave to appeal has been granted on the following questions of law:
(1) Did the Honorable Judges of the Civil Appeal High Court of Kurunegala err in law
by coming to the conclusion that "the land in dispute has sufficiently been
identified by the Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondents is based completely on an
assumption which is not sustainable in law"?
(2) Did the Honorable Judges of the Civil Appeal High Court of Kurunegala err in law
by allowing the appeal on the basis that the corpus had not been properly
identified?
In Latheef v. Mansoor [(2010) 2 Sri LR 333 at 378], Marsoof, J. held:
“The identity of the subject matter is of paramount importance in a rei vindicatio
action because the object of such an action is to determine ownership of the
property, which objective cannot be achieved without the property being clearly
identified. Where the property sought to be vindicated consists of land, the land
Page 5 of 10

--- Page 6 ---
sought to be vindicated must be identified by reference to a survey plan or other
equally expeditious method...” (emphasis added)
Thus, it is well established that to succeed in a rei vindicatio action, the owner must prove
on a balance of probabilities, not only his or her ownership in the property, but also that
the property exists and is clearly identifiable.
The learned President’s Counsel for the 1° to 4"" Defendants submitted that the Plaintiffs
had failed to establish the identity of the corpus and that the learned High Court Judges
were correct in dismissing the Plaintiffs’ action.
The learned President’s Counsel for the 1° to 4! Defendants submitted that whereas the
land claimed by the Plaintiffs is identified as “Kongolle Hena”, the Defendants claimed a
portion of the land called “Batugollawatta”.
| observe that on 19.03.1999, when admissions and issues were framed, the following
admission was recorded:
“දෙපාර්ශවයේ ආරචුලට සම්බන්‌ද ඉඩම වේබර්‌ මානක තැන විසින්‌ මැන සාදන ලද අංක
1247/කුරු දරණ පිඹුරේ නිරූපනය කර ඇති බව පමණක්‌ පිළි ගනී.”
Moreover, on 05.01.2001, learned Counsel for the 1% to 4‘ Defendants made the
following admission:
“මේ අවස්ථාවේදී 99.03.19 දින කර ඇති පිළිගැනීමට මූලික පිඹුර අදාල බවත්‌, එයින්‌ අදහස්‌
කරන්නේ ආරචුලට අදාලව දෙපාර්ශවය අතර භෞනිකව මෙම පිඹුරෙන්‌ නිරූපනය වන
බව පමණක්‌ BBE ජයසේකර මහතා දන්වා සිටී.”
Thus, it is clear that both parties have expressly admitted that the land in dispute is the
land described in Plan No. 1247/20; made by A.B.M. Webber, which is the plan
specifically described in the Second Schedule to the plaint.
Page 6 of 10

--- Page 7 ---
According to Section 58 of the Evidence Ordinance:
“No fact need be proved in any proceeding which the parties thereto or their
agents agree to admit at the hearing, or which, before the hearing, they
agree to admit by any writing under their hands, or which by any rule of
pleading in force at the time they are deemed to have admitted by their
pleadings:
Provided that the court may, in its discretion, require the facts admitted to
be proved otherwise than by such admissions.”
In this case, the admission regarding the identification of the land in dispute was made at
the beginning of the trial. Thus, it is admissible under Section 58 of the Evidence
Ordinance, and there is no necessity to adduce further evidence to establish that fact.
Moreover, no attempt was made to withdraw the admission as to the identity of the
corpus. In the absence of such an attempt, the admission by both parties on the identity
of the corpus as the land identified in Plan No. 1247 / කුරු of A.B.M. Webber, conclusively
settles the issue on the identity of the corpus, and no further proof is necessary.
There are further reasons why the 1* to 4% Defendants could not have challenged the
identity of the corpus.
In their answer dated 19.08.1998, 1% to 4% Defendants pleaded prescriptive title to the
following land identified in the schedule to the answer:
ඉහත කී උපලේඛනය
“වයඹ පළාතේ කුරුණෑගල දිස්ත්‍රික්කයේ වෑඋඩ විල්ලි හත්පත්තුවේ මහගල්‌බොඩ මෙගොඩ
කොරලේ වරද්දන පිහිටි බටුගොල්ලවත්ත නමැති අක්කර එකක්‌ (2.1. රූ .0 පර්‌ .0) විශාල
දෝපළට මායිම්ව උතුරට - එච්‌ .එම්‌ උක්කුබංඩාට අයිති ඉඩමද, නැගෙනහිරට - රන්භාමි කෙංරාලට
අයිති කුඹුර ද, දකුණට - වෑබොඩඬේ කුඹුරද, බස්නාහිරට - පුංච්‌ රාලගේ ඉඩම යන මායිම්‌ තුළ පිහිටි
දේපළ හා එය තුළ පිහිටි ගහකොළ පලතුරු ආදී සියලු දේත්‌ ඇතුළු දේපළ වේ.
Page 7 of 10

--- Page 8 ---
මෙම දේපළ දැනට ඒ.බී.එම්‌.වචෙබර්‌ මානක නිලධාරී තැන විසින්‌ ඔහුගේ වර්ෂ 1986.10.27 දින හා
අංක 1247 7/කූරු දරන පිඹුරේ දක්වා ඇති අතර එහි පිඹුර ප්‍රකාරව එම දෝපලට මායිම්‌ උතුරට~
රන්භාමි කෙරාලට අයිතිව තිබී දැනට මුතු බන්ඩාට සහ රන්බන්ඩාට අයිති කුඹුරද, නැගෙනගිරට
-බංඩා කෙොරාලට සහ තවත්‌ අයට අයිතිච BS දැනට එස්‌.බී.එම්‌.බංඩාට හා ටිකිරි බංඩාට අයිති
DAE, දකුණු බස්නාහිරට - ඩිංගිරිබංඩාට සහ තවත්‌ අයට අයිනිව BS දැනට එච්‌.එම්‌ පුංචිරාලට
අයිති ඉඩම, උතුරු බස්නාහිරට-කලු බණ්ඩාට සහ DOD අයට අයිනිව තිබී දැනට උක්කු බණ්ඩාට
අයිති බටුගොල්ලේහේන දැනට වත්ත යන මායිම්‌ තුළ පිහිටි රූඩි තුනකුත්‌ පර්චස්‌ විසිහය( අ0 රූ3
පර්‌.26) විශාල හා එහි තුල පිහිටි සියලුදේත්‌ ඇතුලු දේපල වේ.”
Accordingly, this expressly refers to the Plan No. 1247//කුරු made by A.B.M. Webber.
The corpus was identified in the plaint as follows:
ඉහත කී උපලේඛනය
“වයඹ පළාතේ කුරුණෑගල දිස්ත්‍රික්කයේ වෑඋඩවිල්ලි හත්පත්තූවේ මහගල්බොඩ මෙගොඩ
කොරලේ වචරද්දාන පිහිටි කෙංන්ගොල්ලේ හේන දැනට වත්ත නැමැති, උතුරට :රන්හාමි
කොරාල්ගේ ඉඩම කියා ඇතත්‌ දැනට නිවැරදිව කලු බංඩා සහ තවත්‌ අයට අයත්‌ බටුගොල්‌ලහේන
දැනට චත්තද, නැගෙනහිරට :රන්හාමි කෙංරාලගේ කුඹුරද, දකුණට:කලුබංඩාගේ බටුගොලේවත්ත
දැනට BORO බංඞඩාකෙොරාල සහ DOD අයට අයත්‌ කුඹුරද, බස්නාගිරට: ඩිංගිරිබංඩා සහ තවත්‌
අයට අයිති ඉඩමද, යන මෙකී මායිම්‌ තුළ පිහිටි කුරක්කන්‌ සේරු තුනක වපසරිය ඇති ඒ 353/155
යටතේ ලියාපදිංචි කර ඇති ඉඩම සහ එහි තුළ පිහිටි ගහකොළ පලතුරු යනාදී සියලු දේන්‌ සමගි ද
වේ.
ඉහත කී දෙවන උපලේඛනය
මෙම ඉඩම 1986.10.23 වෙනි දින 8.9.68 0005 මානක තැන විසින්‌ මැන සාදන ලද අංක 1247
දරන පිඹුරේ සදහන්‌ ඉහත කී වරද'දන පිහිටකෙංන්ගොල්ලේ හේන නමැති උතුරට : කලුබණ්ඩා
සහ තවත්‌ අයට අයිනිව තිබී දැනට උක්කුබංඩාට අයිති බටුගොල්ලේ හේන දැනට ODDE,
නැගෙනහිරට :රංභාමි කෙංරාලට අයිතිව තිබී දැනට මුතුබණ්ඩාට සහ රන්බණ්ඩාට අයිති කුඹුරද,
දකුණට : බන්ඩාකෙංාරාලාට සහ තවත්‌ අයට අයිතිව තිබී දැනට එස්‌.බී.එම්‌ බංඩාට සහ ටිකිරි AHO
අයිති කුඹුරද(බටුගොල්ලේ හේන දැනට කුඹුර) බස්නාහිරට: ඩිංගිරිබංඞාට සහ තවත්‌ අයට අයිනිව
Page 8 of 10

--- Page 9 ---
තිබී දැනට එච්‌.එම්‌ පුංචිරාලට අයිනි ඉඩමද,යන මෙකී මායිම්‌ තූළ පිහිටි රූඩි තුනයි පර්චස්‌ විසිහයක්‌
(අ,00.රු.03.පාර්‌.26) විශාල ඉඩම්‌ වේ”
Thus, both parties sought to identify the land they are claiming by reference to Plan No.
1247/ කුරු prepared by A.B.M. Webber, which appears at page 209 of the Appeal brief
marked as “X”.
In these circumstances, the learned High Court judges made a grave error in law by
seeking to revisit the question of the identity of the corpus.
Moreover, the 1% to 4" Defendants pleaded prescriptive title. A person who claims a
prescriptive title must demonstrate possession over a specifically identified corpus; failure
to do so renders such a claim untenable, as a prescription cannot operate over an
uncertain or unidentified land.
Accordingly, when a party claims prescriptive title to a particular corpus, that party cannot
thereafter contend that the corpus has not been properly identified. The rationale is that,
in order to claim prescriptive title, the land must first be clearly and specifically identified,
as only then can the claimant rely on undisturbed and uninterrupted possession to
establish ownership by prescription. Therefore, in the present case, the 1% to 41
Defendants are estopped from asserting that the corpus has not been identified.
For all the foregoing reasons, | answer the two questions of law in the affirmative.
Accordingly, | set aside the judgment of the Civil Appeal High Court of Kurunegala dated
08.11.2011 and affirm the judgment of the learned District Judge of Kurunegala dated
20.09.2004.

Page 9 of 10

--- Page 10 ---
The appeal is allowed with costs fixed at Rs. 75,000/=.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
S. Thurairaja, PC, J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
A.H.M.D. Nawaz, J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
Page 10 of 10