--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
In the matter of an Application under
Chapter LIII of the Civil Procedure
Code.
SC.CHC. Appeal No.19/2009
HC (Civil) No. 74/2002 (1)
Adamjee Lukmanjee & Sons
Limited,
No. 140, Grandpass Road,
Colombo 14.
Plaintiff
Vs.
Samarasinghe Arachchige Premasiri,
No. 28/18, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Suwarapola,
Piliyandala.
Defendant
And
In the matter of an application
under Section 839 read with Section
218 and 343 of the Civil Procedure
Code.
Samarasinghe Arachchige Premasiri,
No. 28/18, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Suwarapola,
Piliyandala.
Defendant-Judgment-Debtor-
Petitioner
Vs.
1

--- Page 2 ---
1. Adamjee Lukmanjee & Sons Ltd.
No. 140, Grandpass Road,
Colombo 14.
Plaintiff-Judgment-Creditor-
Respondent
2. Hatton National Bank,
HNB Towers, No. 479,
T.B. Jayah Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
Respondent
And
In the matter of an application
under Section 298 and Section
300 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Adamjee Lukmanjee & Sons
Limited,
No. 140, Grandpass Road,
Colombo 14.
Plaintiff-Petitioner
Vs.
Samarasinghe Arachchige Premasiri,
No. 28/18, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Suwarapola,
Piliyandala.
Defendant-Respondent
And Now
In the matter of an application for
Special Leave to Appeal under
Article 128(4) of the Constitution
read with Section 5(2) of the High
Court of the Province (Special
Provisions) Act No. 10 0f 1996.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Samarasinghe Arachchige Premasiri,
No. 28/18, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Suwarapola,
Piliyandala.
Defendant-Judgment-Debtor-
Petitioner-Appellant
Vs.
1. Adamjee Lukmanjee & Sons Ltd,
No. 140, Grandpass Road,
Colombo 14.
Plaintiff-Judgment Creditor-
Respondent-Respondent
2. Hatton National Bank
HNB Towers, No. 479,
T.B. Jayah Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
Respondent-Respondent
* * * *
BEFORE : Eva Wanasundera, PC.J,
Sisira J De Abrew,J. &
Sarath de Abrew,J.
COUNSEL : Saliya Pieris, with Palitha Yaggahawita for Defendant-
Judgment-Debtor-Petitioner-Appellant.
M. Adamaly with J. Abeysundera for Plaintiff-
Judgment-Creditor-Respondent-Respondent.
ARGUED ON : 24-06-2014
3

--- Page 4 ---
WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
FILED ON THE PRELIMINARY
OBJECTIONS : By the Defendant-Judgment-Debtor-Petitioner-
Appellant on 22-07-2014.
By the Plaintiff-Judgment-Creditor-Respondent-
Respondent 22-07-2014.
DECIDED ON : 29-09-2014
* * * * *
Wanasundera, PC.J.
This application before the Supreme Court has arisen from an order of the
Commercial High Court of Colombo dated 21.08.2008 in case No. HC. Civil
74/2002(1) to the effect that, the land and house bearing premises No. 28/18,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Suwarapola, Piliyandala which was seized under a Writ
of Execution was not the residential premises of the judgment-Debtor as claimed
by him and it cannot be released from seizure under the Writ of Execution, in
terms of Section 343(1) of the Civil Procedure Code.
The Writ of Execution was issued on 26.03.2003 for the recovery of the decreed
sum of about Rs.3.7 million with interest from 30.11.2001 in default of the
consent judgment entered between the parties for the judgment-debtor to pay
only Rs.1.85 million in monthly instalments on or before 31.07.2004 to the
Judgment-Creditor which the Defendant-Judgment-Debtor-Petitioner-Appellant
defaulted by not paying a single instalment as agreed.
Leave to Appeal was granted by the Supreme Court on 18.06.2009 against the
order dated 21.08.2008. At the same time, by agreement of parties, the 2nd
Respondent, Hatton National Bank was discharged from the Supreme Court
proceedings and the journal entry of 18.06.2009 reads thereafter, “written
4

--- Page 5 ---
submissions to be filed in terms of the Rules. Hearing is fixed for
24.09.2009”. In the said order the questions of law were not specified meaning
that all the questions of law as enumerated in the petition were allowed.
Written submissions of the Plaintiff-Judgment- Creditor-Respondent-Respondent
(hereinafter referred to as the “Respondent”) dated 09.09.2009 was filed on
10.09.2009. A motion dated 09.09.2009 was also filed by the Respondent
bringing to the notice of Court that written submissions had not been filed at all
even by that date, by the Defendant-Judgment-Debtor-Petitioner-Appellant
(hereinafter referred to as the “Appellant”), in terms of the rules of the Supreme
Court and as such the Respondent moved that any written submissions by the
Appellant should be rejected by Court. The date fixed for hearing was
24.09.2009. The Petitioner had not filed written submissions on that date or
before that date. In summary, the Petitioner failed to file written submissions on
or before the date fixed for hearing, i.e. 24.09.2009.
On 24.09.2009 hearing was refixed for 11.05.2010 as the Supreme Court Bench
that day did not have time to hear the case. The Appellant filed written
submissions dated 18.11.2009 on 19.11.2009. The case got postponed many
times thereafter till the date it was taken up for argument on 24.06.2014 when a
preliminary objection was raised by the Respondent with regard to the
Appellant’s non-compliance of Supreme Court Rules 30 and 34. Oral
submissions of Counsel for both parties were heard and written submissions on
this preliminary objection have been tendered to Court.
The Respondent who raised the preliminary objection submitted that,
(a) the Appellant ought to have filed written submissions within 06 weeks
from 18.06.2009, ie. on or before 30.07.2009 which he failed to do.
(b) the Appellant had failed up to date to furnish certified copies of
documents X1 to X7 in terms of the Supreme Court Rules which he
had pleaded in the Petition and undertaken to be filed and this act is
further evidence of the failure to prosecute diligently and,
5

--- Page 6 ---
(c) the Appellant’s appeal should be dismissed for failure to prosecute
diligently disregarding the Supreme Court Rules.
The Appellant objecting to the preliminary objection submitted that,
(a) the present Appeal is not one which is covered by the Supreme Court
Rules which deal with Special Leave to Appeal and Leave to Appeal
applications from the Court of Appeal (such Court acting as an
Appellate Court),
(b) the present Appeal is an Appeal as per the Leave to Appeal procedure
found in the Civil Procedure Code when in the course of proceedings
an original civil court makes a certain order and
(c) in terms of the latest decisions of the Supreme Court, when written
submissions have been filed by the date of the argument and no
prejudice has been caused to a party, the failure to file written
submissions on the due date is not a ground for rejecting the entire
Appeal.
In deciding on this preliminary issue, I would like to firstly consider the first
objection taken up by the Appellant to the effect that Supreme Court Rules do
not apply to Appeals from the Commercial High Court being an original Court
from which the appeal has reached the Supreme Court.
Section 6 of the High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 10 of
1996 provides that “Every appeal to the Supreme Court and every
application to appeal under Section 5 shall be made as nearly as may be in
accordance with the procedure prescribed by Chapter LVIII of the Civil
Procedure Code (Chapter 101)”. It could be understood that the procedure in
making an Appeal to the Supreme Court, which means the time limits within
which the Appeal or the application for leave should be filed should be in
compliance with the provisions in the Civil Procedure Code. The Act No. 10 of
1996, does not intend to do anything touching the Supreme Court Procedure with
6

--- Page 7 ---
regard to hearing of the Appeal. It only provides for procedure from the
commencement, i.e. the filing of actions in the High Court to the point it leaves
the High Court. An Act of Parliament has to be interpreted within the four corners
of the Act. When Act No. 10 of 1996 was enacted, there could not have been
any intention in the law-maker’s mind to regulate the procedure once the case
‘steps out the High Court’. I cannot agree with the contention of the Appellant
that when a High Court decision is appealed on, that written submissions need
not be filed in the Supreme Court. The moment any case enters the arena of the
powers given to the Supreme Court from any forum, whether it is from an original
Court or a Court of Appeal, it comes under the wing of the Supreme Court. That
is the very basic reason behind the Supreme Court Rules. Regulating the
manner in which the Supreme Court hears the case is done by the SC. Rules
and no Act of Parliament could ever have intended to have a bearing as to how
cases should be heard and the procedure that should be adopted in the
Supreme Court. It does not make sense when one tries to differentiate between
cases coming to the Supreme Court from another Appellate Court or another
original Court. Before reaching the threshold of getting the Supreme Court to
hear the case, permission has to be received whether it is a fit matter to be
heard by the Supreme Court or not. That is the ‘leave’ stage. Once leave is
granted the case enters the Supreme Court. Once entry is granted, the Rules to
be applied cannot be any rules other than the Supreme Court Rules. The
argument of the Appellant is untenable.
Secondly I consider the second objection taken up by the Appellant to the effect
that the Supreme Court Rules as considered in the latest judgments are in favour
of the Appellant in this case. In the instant case, leave was granted and I
consider that the Appellant got entry to the Supreme Court to get his case heard
on the merits, of course. Then comes the procedure which should be followed if
anyone needs to get the Supreme Court to hear the case on its merits.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Rule 34 reads:-
“Where an appellant, or a petitioner who has obtained leave to appeal,
fails to show due diligence in taking all necessary steps for the purpose of
prosecuting the appeal or application, the Court may, on an application in
that behalf by a respondent, or of its own motion, on such notice to the
parties as it shall think reasonable in the circumstances, declare the
appeal or application to stand dismissed for non-prosecution, and the
costs of the appeal or application and any security entered into by the
appellant shall be dealt with in such manner as the Court may think fit.”
Rule 30(1) reads:-
“No party to an appeal shall be entitled to be heard, unless he has
previously lodged five copies of his written submissions (hereinafter
referred to as “submissions”, complying with the provisions of this rule.”
Rule 30(6) reads:-
“The appellant shall within six weeks of the grant of special leave to
appeal, or leave to appeal, as the case may be lodge his submissions at
the Registry and shall forthwith give notice thereof to each respondent by
serving on him a copy of such submissions.”
It is obvious that the Appellant has de facto failed to comply with the Rules of the
Supreme Court. Yet he contends that the latest judgments are in his favour and
thereafter even though filed late, his written submissions be accepted and the
case should be heard on the merits.
The recent relevant judgments are A.C. Muthappan Chettiar Vs. M.R.
Karunanayake and another SC. Appeal 69/2003 - reported in BALJ (2005)
Vol. X1), Tissa Attanayake Vs. Commissioner General of Elections and 27
others (SC. Spl, LA. No. 55/2011.- SC. Minutes of 21.07.2011), Ananda
Dharmasinghe Bandara and Another Vs. Herath Mudiyanselage Leelawathie
Menike and Another (SC. Appeal 172/2011- SC. minutes of 22.01.2014) and
Elias Vs.Gajasinghe & another (SC. Appeal 50/2008- SC. minutes of
8

--- Page 9 ---
28.06.2011), and Fernando Vs. Fernando (SC. Appeal 81/2009- SC. Minutes of
30.04.2010).
In the case of Muthappan Chettiar Vs. M.R. Karunanayake and another
(supra), the then Chief Justice Dr. S. Bandaranayake, discussed the applicability
of Rule 34 of the Supreme Court Rules of 1990 as follows:-
“Although the appeal shall not be dismissed for the non-compliance of Rule
30(1) and the effect of such non-compliance would be the non-entitlement
to be heard, such non-compliance would attract Rule 34 which clearly
states that, an appellant who fails to show due diligence in taking all
necessary steps for the purpose of prosecuting the appeal, the Court would
declare the appeal to stand dismissed for non-prosecution”.
It was further held that,
“Rule 30 of the Supreme Court Rules of 1990 deals with the written
submissions that has to be filed prior to the date of the hearing. Both
Rules 30(1) and 30(6) refer to the filing of the written submissions
regarding an appeal. Whilst Rule 30(1) refers to the need for filing of such
submissions, Rule 30(6) clearly specifies the time period given for the filing
of the said written submissions. A careful reading of both Rules indicates
that the provisions stated in them are mandatory”….
“In terms of these two rules, it is necessary for the Appellant to file five
copies of his written submissions in the Registry and this has to be
carried within six weeks of the grant of special leave or leave to appeal
by this Court. Also it is necessary that the appellant must take steps
to give notice to each respondent of the lodging at the Registry of
such submissions by serving on them a copy of his written
submissions. Therefore the cumulative effect of Rules 30 (1) and Rules
30(6) would be that the Appellant should file five copies of his written
submissions within six weeks of the grant of special leave or leave to
9

--- Page 10 ---
appeal as the case may be, and a copy of such submissions has to be
served to the respondent/s notifying of the said submissions.”
In the instant case, the Appellant could have moved this Court for further time by
way of a motion or by way of an oral request when the case came up before Court
or explained why the written submissions were delayed so that this Court could
have used its discretion and granted time. Even when written submissions was
filed after the due time, the Appellant did neither give any reason for the delay nor
mentioned that the written submissions be accepted by Court even though
delayed.
In the aforementioned case of Muthappan Chettiar Vs. M.R. Karunanayake and
another, Chief Justice Dr. Bandaranayake observed,
“The appellant could have moved this Court stating valid and
acceptable reasons and sought the leave of the court for further time
to furnish written submissions. However, it is to be borne in mind that the
appellant had not sought to exercise the discretion of this Court, but also
had not given any valid reason even belatedly for this Court to
consider using its discretion ”.
The rules are in place so that the Supreme Court would function smoothly. This
aspect, if totally disregarded would lead to chaos in hearing the cases before the
Supreme Court. In Tissa Attanayake Vs. Commissioner
General of Elections and 27 others (supra) case, it was observed that,
“The Supreme Court Procedure laid down by way of Supreme Court Rules
made under and in terms of the provisions of the Constitution cannot be
easily disregarded as they have been made for the purpose of
ensuring the smooth functioning of the legal machinery of this
Court”…. .
“Through a long line of cases decided by this Court, a clear principle has
been enumerated that where there is non-compliance with a mandatory
10

--- Page 11 ---
Rule, serious consideration should be given for such non-compliance
as such non-compliance would lead to a serious erosion of well
established Court procedure followed by our Courts throughout
several decades.”
Again, in the case of Fernando Vs. Sybil Fernando and others 1997 3 SLR 1,
Justice Dr. A.R.B. Amarasinghe observed “Judges do not blindly devote
themselves to procedures or ruthlessly sacrifice litigants to technicalities, although
parties on the road to justice may choose to act recklessly”.
In Ananda Dharmasinghe Bandara and Another Vs. Herath Mudiyanselage
Leelawathie Menike and Another (supra) case, this Court over-ruled the
preliminary objection of non-compliance with the SC. Rules distinguishing the
facts of the case from those in Muthappan Chettiar case. Writing the judgment in
Bandara’s case, Justice Eva Wanasundera,PC observed that ,
“In this case 6 weeks from 28.10.2011 falls on 09.12.2011 and 12 weeks
from 28.10.2011 falls on 13.01.2012. The Respondents have in fact
filed their written submissions on 16.01.2012, i.e. three days after
13.01.2012. The Appellant has filed his written submissions on
17.01.2012. At the time of granting leave, this Court had fixed the
date of hearing of this matter as 26.03.2012. Therefore, written
submissions of both parties in fact were filed in Court before the date
of hearing.“
“In Annamalai Chettiar Muthappan Chettiar Vs. Mangala
Karunanayake and another SC. Appeal No. 69/2003 - SC Minutes of
06.06.2005, the Appellant had not filed written submissions for 1 year and
4 months after Court granted Special Leave to Appeal on 24.09.2003.
Even when the appeal was taken up for hearing on 17.02.2005, there
was no written submissions of the Appellant on record. It was an
obvious case on “not prosecuting diligently””.
11

--- Page 12 ---
“In the present case, the Appellants did not file the written submissions
within 6 weeks according to SC. Rules but filed at the end of 12 weeks
begging Court to accept the written submissions mentioning that the delay
was due to inadvertence on the part of the Lawyers appearing for the
Appellants. The explanation given for the delay is ‘inadvertence’ of the
Lawyer. The meaning of ‘inadvertence’ according to the Blacks Law
Dictionary is, “an accidental oversight” which could be construed as ‘an
oversight not having occurred as a result of anyone’s purposeful act’. The
Lawyers have apologetically accepted inadvertence on their part on
behalf of the Appellants, in the motion with which the written submissions
were submitted. The first date of hearing of the appeal fell on 26.03.2012
and the Appellants filed their written submissions on 17.01.2012 which
was more than 2 months prior to the date of hearing. In the instant case,
the Respondents are not prejudiced by the Appellant’s non-compliance
with Rule 30(6) of the SC. Rules, because of the written submissions of the
Appellant was filed before Court two months prior to the date of hearing”.
In the instant case, from the day that leave was granted and Court ordered that
written submissions be filed in terms of the rules, the Appellant knew that he had
to file written submissions according to the rules within 06 weeks. That was an
order of Court. If he wanted more time he could have filed a motion and got
more time at the discretion of Court. He failed to do so. Then at the end of 12
weeks the Respondent filed his written submissions and brought to the notice of
Court that the Appellant had not filed the written submissions. Even at that time
the Appellant did not give his mind to his failure and did not do anything about it.
By the first date of hearing which was 24.09.2009 the written submissions of the
Appellant was not before Court nor had he asked for an extension of time to do
the same. In fact the Appellant was not ready with the submissions in place for
the argument to be taken up on that day. He ran the peril of not being heard by
the Supreme Court on 24.09.2009. It may be that he being under the impression
that written submission was not necessary to be filed as it was, according to his
line of arguments, that he was not bound by the SC. Rules but bound only by
12

--- Page 13 ---
the High Court (Special Provisions) Act No. 10 of 1996 where there is nothing
mentioned anything regarding written submissions. He had hardly recognized
that he was not complying with an order of Court to file written submissions
according to the Rules of the Supreme Court. Having got leave, having come
before the Supreme Court, the orders of Court should be complied with, and
priviledges should be asked for and received from Court to the benefit of the
parties. This Court would have never refused any reasonable request.
In addition to not having filed written submissions according to rules, at the
beginning of the case, the Appellant has pleaded in paragraph 13 of the Petition
and in paragraph 15 of the Affidavit that he will submit to Court certified copies
of documents X1 to X7 which he has failed to do up to date. This fact also adds
to due diligence not being taken to prosecute the case. He has not cared for any
proper prosecution of his case. Now he cannot be heard to say that no
prejudice was caused by not having tendered certified copies of documents. I
hold that he has not prosecuted his case properly.
In the circumstances, I uphold the preliminary objection that the Appellant has
failed to prosecute the case diligently under the Supreme Court Rules, 1990 and
as such I dismiss the appeal. I order no costs.
Judge of the Supreme Court
Sisira J De Abrew,J.
I agree.
Judge of the Supreme Court
Sarath de Abrew,J.
I agree.
Judge of the Supreme Court
13

--- Page 14 ---
14