--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
In the matter of an application for
Appeal in terms of Section 5(c)
of the High Court of the Provinces
(Special Provisions) Amendment
Act No. .
1. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Thilaka Chandralatha
Samaranayake,
Thalapitiya, Panawela,
Eheliyagoda.
2. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Vanitha Tulin
Samaranayake,
No.199, Malagala, Padukka.
Plaintiffs
SC Appeal No. 03/2016
SC HC (CA) LA No. 80/2015
WP/HCCA/AV/818/2008(F)
D.C. Pugoda Case No.480/P
Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Oliver Ranjith
Samaranayake,
No. 926/6, Kotte Road, Ethul Kotte,
Kotte.

--- Page 2 ---
Defendant
AND BETWEEN
Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Oliver Ranjith
Samaranayake,
No. 926/6, Kotte Road, Ethul Kotte,
Kotte.
Defendant-Appellant
1. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Thilaka Chandralatha
Samaranayake,
Thalapitiya, Panawela,
Eheliyagoda.
2. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Vanitha Tulin
Samaranayake,
No.199, Malagala, Padukka.
Plaintiffs-Respondents
AND NOW BETWEEN
1. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Thilaka Chandralatha
Samaranayake,
Thalapitiya, Panawela,
Eheliyagoda.

--- Page 3 ---
2. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Vanitha Tulin
Samaranayake,
No.199, Malagala, Padukka.
Plaintiffs-Respondents-Appellants
Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Oliver Ranjith
Samaranayake,
No. 926/6, Kotte Road, Ethul Kotte,
Kotte.
Defendant-Appellant-Respondent
Before : MAHINDA SAMAYAWARDHENA, J.
K. PRIYANTHA FERNANDO, J.
M. SAMPATH K. B. WIJERATNE, J.
Counsel : Chathura Galhena with Naduni Hemantha instructed
by Manoja Gunawardena for the Plaintiffs-
Respondents-Appellants.
Rohan Sahabandu, PC with Chathurika Elvitigala and
S. Senanayake instructed by Amila Kiripitigala for the
Defendant-Appellant-Respondent.
Argued on : 29.09.2025

--- Page 4 ---
Decided on : 04.11.2025
K. PRIYANTHA FERNANDO, J
1. This is an appeal from the judgment of the High Court of Civil Appeal,
Avissawella dated 23.01.2015 that held in favour of the Defendant-
Appellant-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as Defendant). The 1st
and 2nd Plaintiffs-Respondents-Appellants (hereinafter referred to as
Plaintiffs) preferred this appeal from the judgment of the High Court
that decided on the basis that the corpus of the subject matter has not
been properly identified.
Facts in Brief
2. The land in issue is described in the schedule to the amended Plaint
dated 22.12.1998. The Plaintiffs instituted action to partition the said
land between the Plaintiffs and the Defendant.
3. According to the amended Plaint, the Plaintiffs state that each of them
are entitled to 1/6 share of the said land and that the Defendant is
entitled to 4/6.
4. The Defendant, in the Statement of Claim, has stated that the land in
question has not been identified properly as there is a vast difference
in the extent of the land described in the amended Plaint and the
Preliminary Plan submitted by the Licenced Surveyor J. M. D. T. Patrick
Reginold, which is dated 13.12.2000 and is marked as X.
5. The learned District Judge, delivering her judgment dated 26.03.2008
held in favour of the Plaintiff and ordered the land to be partitioned as
prayed for in the amended Plaint.
6. Being aggrieved by the decision of the learned District Judge, the
Defendant preferred an appeal to the Civil Appellate High Court of
Avissawella.

--- Page 5 ---
7. Upon hearing of the Appeal, the Learned Judges of the High Court
delivered the judgment on 23.01.2015 allowing the Appeal and setting
aside the judgment of the District Court.
8. Being aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, the Plaintiffs
preferred the instant appeal to this Court. Leave to appeal was granted
on the questions of law set out in paragraphs 17 (iii) and 17 (iv) of the
Petition dated 04.03.2015.
Questions of Law
9. Paragraph 17;
(iii) Did the Civil Appellate High Court err in dismissing the action due to
the disparity or variation in the extent in the corpus morefully described
in the schedule to the plaint and the corpus depicted in the preliminary
plan?
(iv) Did the Civil Appellate High Court fail to follow the decisions of the
Superior Courts in an instant of the disparity or variation in the extent of
the corpus and dismiss the action?
Analysis of the Questions of Law
10. Section 18(1)(a)(iii) of the Partition Law No. states that;
(1) The surveyor shall duly execute the commission issued to him
and, in doing so shall, where any boundary of the land
surveyed by him is undefined, demarcate that boundary on
the ground by means of such boundary marks as are not
easily removed or destroyed and shall, on or before the date
fixed for the purpose, make due return thereto and shall transmit
to the court-- Page 6 ---
(a) a report, in duplicate, substantially in the form set out in
the Second Schedule to this Law, verified by affidavit
stating-
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) whether or not the land surveyed by him is in
his opinion substantially the same as the land
sought to be partitioned as described in the
schedule to the plaint
(iv) 
[Emphasis mine]
11. In the case of Sopaya Silva and Another v. Magilin Silva [1989 02
Sri LR 105] at 108 it was stated by S.N. Silva, J. that;
 If the land surveyed is substantially different from the land as
described in the schedule to the plaint, the Court has to decide at
that stage whether to issue instructions to the surveyor to carry
out a fresh survey in conformity with the commission or whether
the action should be proceeded with in respect of the land as
surveyed.
12. The identification of the corpus is vital to a partition action and as stated
by Samayawardhena, J. in Thiththalapitige Ruban Perera v.
Thiththalapitige Tilakaratne and Another (SC/APPEAL/125/2016
S.C. Minutes of 21 May 2021);
In a partition action, if the corpus cannot be identified, ipso
facto, the action shall fail. There is no necessity to investigate title
until the corpus is properly identified. The decision that the corpus
has not been properly identified decides the fate of the action

--- Page 10 ---
23. While there are slight differences in the names of the boundaries, I will
draw attention to the following excerpt by Samayawardhena, J. in the
judgment of Thiththalapitige Ruban Perera v. Thiththalapitige
Tilakaratne and Another (supra):
the Surveyor went to the land 76 years after the execution of
the earliest known Deed. One cannot expect the boundaries of land
in Gampaha to remain unchanged for 76 years.  In the
Preliminary Plan, the Surveyor records the existing boundaries. In
doing so, he gives the names of the present owners.
24. Similarly, in the instant case too, the Surveyors Preliminary Plan is
made in the year 2000 while the Deeds marked P2 and P3 are dated
07.04.1944. Thus, realistically one cannot expect the boundaries of a
land and their owners to remain unchanged for a period of
approximately 56 years.
25. Therefore, I answer the first question of law in the affirmative that the
Civil Appellate High Court has erred in dismissing the action due to the
disparity or variation in the extent in the corpus morefully described in
the schedule to the plaint and the corpus depicted in the Preliminary
Plan.
26. In relation to the second question of law, the learned Presidents Counsel
for the Defendant, in his written submissions, has referred to several
judgments of this Court throughout several years which have dealt with
issues regarding discrepancies in the extent of a land. However, these
case laws are distinguishable from the case at hand on both legal and
factual premises.
27. Therefore, taking the above into account, I affirm that the corpus has
sufficiently been identified. The learned District Judge has correctly
addressed all aspects in detail having regard to the evidence before the
Court. The two questions of law are answered in the affirmative.

--- Page 11 ---
28. Hence, I set aside the judgment of the Civil Appellate High Court of
Avissawella dated 23.01.2015 and uphold the judgment of the District
Court of Pugoda dated 26.03.2008.
Appeal is allowed
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE MAHINDA SAMAYAWARDHENA
I agree
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE M. SAMPATH K.B. WIJERATNE
I agree
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT