--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
In the matter of an Application for Special Leave to
Appeal from the Judgement of the High Court of
Civil Appeal, Colombo in Case No.
WP/HCCA/COL. 77/2007 (LA) dated 3rd
December 2007 marked DP (Y4) with the Petition.
In the matter of an Application made in terms of
Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Sena Ranjith Fernando of No. 130/09,
Nawala Road,
Nugegoda.
Defendant-Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant
SC Appeal No. 19/2008
SC (HC) CALA No. 44/2007
WP/HCCA/COL No. 77/2007 (LA) -Vs-
DC Mt. Lavinia Case No. 951/06/Spl
1. Tennakoon Mudiyanselage Ranjith Tennakoon
No. 65, Medawelikada,
Rajagiriya
and presently at
Bellbird Tires,
No. 160,
Main Street,
Blacktown,
NSW 2148, Sydney,
Australia.
Intervenient Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent
1. E. V. T. De Silva
No. 134/3,
Stanley Tillekeratne Mawatha,
Nugegoda.
2. Geetha Amarasinghe
No. 23/30,
Devala Lane,
Pagoda,
Nugegoda.
Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent-Respondents
BEFORE : Shiranee Tilakawardane, J;
R. A. N. G. Amaratunga, J; and
Saleem Marsoof, P.C., J.
1

--- Page 2 ---
COUNSEL : Nihal Fernando, P.C., with Rejindra Jayasinghe and Ranil
Angunawela, instructed by Ms. Iresha soysa for the
Defendant-Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant.
Rohan Sahabandu with Ranjith Perera for the Intervenient-
Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent.
Chathura Galhewa instructed by Upendra Gunasekara for
the Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent-Respondents.
ARGUED ON : 17-06-2008
DECIDED ON : 22-07-2010
MARSOOF, J.
This is an appeal against the decision of the High Court of Civil Appeal of the Western Province
dated 3rd December 2007 refusing leave to appeal from the order of the District Court of Mount
Lavinia dated 25th May 2007. By the said order, the learned District Judge permitted the
Intervenient Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent, Tennakoon Mudiyanselage Ranjith Tennakoon
(hereinafter referred to as Tennakoon) to intervene into an action instituted by Edirimuni Vijith
Thejalal de Silva and Geetha Amarasinghe, who are respectively the 1st and 2nd Plaintiff-
Respondent-Respondent-Respondents to this appeal against one Sena Ranjith Fernando, the
Defendant-Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant, seeking to enforce a partnership agreement. This
was an action for the dissolution and winding up of an alleged partnership between the said
Edirimuni Vijith Thejalal de Silva (hereinafter referred to as E.V.T de Silva), Geetha
Amarasinghe (hereinafter referred to as Geetha Amarasinghe) and Sena Ranjith Fernando
(hereinafter referred to as Fernando) which has been registered under the Business Names
Ordinance, No. 6 of 1918 as subsequently amended, in the name and style of „General Trade
Agency‟.
The facts relevant to this appeal may be briefly outlined as follows. It appears from the
Certificate of Registration dated 21st June 1983 annexed to the Plaint marked „P1‟, which was
issued under the Business Names Ordinance, that the said Tennakoon and one Rangoda
Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva (who is now deceased and who was the husband of Geetha
Amarasinghe, the 2nd Plaintiff- Respondent-Respondent-Respondent to this appeal) commenced
a business of repairing of motor vehicles and distribution of merchandise in partnership under
the name and style of „General Trade Agency‟ on 17th May 1983. It also appears that prior to
migrating to Australia, the said Tennakoon executed the Power of Attorney bearing No. 176
dated 6th November 1988 and attested by K. A. Wijayadasa, Attorney-at-Law and Notary Public
(A4), appointing the said E.V.T de Silva as his Attorney to operate certain bank accounts he held
in Sampath Bank, Colombo and to act for him in relation to the said partnership. By the said
Power of Attorney, the said E.V.T de Silva was authorized by Tennakoon “to act for me and on
my behalf in all matters pertaining to the Partnership called and known as „General Trade
Agency‟”.
It is evident from the extracts of the Business Names Register produced as DP(Y2) that on 7th
February 1989 the said Udaya Silva made a statement of change, under oath, purportedly under
Section 7 of the Business Names Ordinance, to the effect that the said Tennakoon ceased to be a
partner on that date and that the said E.V.T de Silva was admitted as a new partner in his place.
It also appears from the said extract that the Registrar of Business Names, Western Province,
relying on the said Statement of Change has accordingly altered the Register by the inclusion of
2

--- Page 3 ---
the name of the said E.V.T de Silva in substitution of the name of Tennakoon. However,
nowhere in the Register is there an indication as to the circumstances in which Tennakoon
ceased to be a partner. Thereafter in 1992, the Defendant-Respondent–Petitioner-Appellant,
Fernando was admitted as a partner. In 2004, the existing business lines were expanded to
include a mechanical workshop, the import, sale and distribution of motor vehicles, machinery,
spare parts, electrical items, drugs and chemicals, transport and tourism, insurance, and
manpower services, and the partnership was re-registered (vide - Certificate of Registration
dated 29th November 2004 marked „P4‟). After the death of Udaya Silva, his wife namely,
Geetha Amarasinghe entered the partnership with E. V. T de Silva and Fernando, and a new
firm was registered in June 2005. It is noteworthy that the only record of Tennakoon‟s alleged
partnership in the Business Names Register is in the Certificate of Registration dated 21st June
1983 marked „P1‟, and in none of the subsequent registration of the partnership business
Tennakoon‟s name is reflected as a partner.
Although the original partnership business commenced in 1983, and there is little or no
evidence that the initial partner Tennakoon, who left Sri Lanka in 1988, had any role to play in
the partnership business after his departure, no legal proceedings had been commenced in this
regard till 31st May 2006, when E.V.T de Silva and Geetha Amarasinghe commenced action
against Fernando in the District Court of Mount Lavinia seeking to have the partnership
dissolved and wound-up. It is to this action that Tennakoon, acting through his Attorney
Ranjith Amarasinghe, sought to intervene by his Petition dated 2nd February 2007, which was
made in terms of Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code No. 2 of 1889, as subsequently
amended. The said application for intervention was made on the basis that the business called
“General Trade Agency” was started by Tennekoon on 17th May 1983 with one Udaya Silva and
that the agreement between the partners was later reduced into writing, which was the
Partnership Agreement dated 30th June 1988 purportedly signed by Rangoda Liyanarachchige
Udaya Silva and Tennakoon in the presence of two witnesses, a copy of which was produced
by Tennakoon marked „A3‟ with his application for intervention.
The said Partnership Agreement expressly provides in clause 10 thereof that without the
consent of all the other partners no rights of the partners may be transferred or alienated or any
new partners admitted into the partnership. In paragraph 5(c) of the said application for
intervention, it has been pleaded that the partnership between the said Rangoda
Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva and Tennakoon came to an end by the death of the former which
occurred on or about 5th June 2005, and that as the surviving sole partner, the said Tennakoon is
entitled to all the assets and capital of the partnership subject to the rights of the heirs of the
said Rangoda Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva. In paragraph 6 of the said application, it has been
pleaded that the original plaintiffs, E.V.T de Silva and Geetha Amarasinghe and the defendant
Fernando are seeking to divide the capital and assets of the partnership exclusively amongst
themselves, and that by reason of the prejudice that would thereby be caused to Tennakoon, he
is a necessary party to this action, and should be added as an intervenient party.
The learned District Judge who inquired into the application for intervention after the other
parties filed their respective objections thereto, has by his order dated 25th May 2007, concluded
that Tennakoon is a necessary and material party and should be added. By its order dated 3rd
December 2007, the High Court of Civil Appeal of the Western Province affirmed the said order
of the learned District Judge and refusing leave to appeal. This Court has on 22nd February 2008
granted special leave to appeal against the order of the High Court of Civil Appeal on the
following substantial questions of law:-
3

--- Page 4 ---
(a) Has the High Court of Civil Appeal (Colombo) erred in not considering the delay of
almost 18 years and the fact that different partnerships came into being during the
period of 18 years?
(b) Whether the High Court of Civil Appeal (Colombo) erred in dismissing the application
for leave to appeal of the Defendant-Petitioner (Fernando)?
(c) Whether the High Court of Civil Appeal (Colombo) erred in holding that the
Intervenient Petitioner (Tennakoon) is a necessary party to enable the court of
effectually and completely adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in the
said action?
(e) Whether the High Court of Civil Appeal (Colombo) has erred by not considering the
fact that the Intervenient Petitioner (Tennakoon) is in any event not entitled to any
relief as he is guilty of laches and/or inordinate delay?
(f) Whether the High Court of Civil Appeal (Colombo) has erred in not holding that the
any alleged claim of the Intervenient Petitioner (Tennakoon) is prescribed in law and as
such the Intervenient Petitioner (Tennakoon) is not entitled to intervene?
The primary question for determination by this Court is whether Tennakoon has slept over his
rights, and if so, whether his delay and / or laches would disentitle him to intervene into the
action in the District Court. In order to deal with the questions arising on this appeal, it is
necessary to go into the facts in some depth. However, since the trial has not commenced and
at the Interim Injunction Inquiry no oral evidence was led, the facts can be only be gathered
from the affidavits of the parties filed in the original court and in the course of the appellate
proceedings.
It may be noted at the outset that the Plaint dated 31st May 2006 filed in the original court did
not disclose the existence of any partnership agreement “in writing and signed by the party
making the same” which is necessary for “establishing a partnership where the capital exceeds
one thousand rupees” as provided in Section 18 (c) of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance No. 7
of 1840 as subsequently amended, and in fact, the original court has refused the grant of
interim-injunction by its order dated 30th June 2006, mainly on the ground that despite the
initial capital exceeding one thousand rupees, no written partnership agreement has been
produced in evidence. The Application for leave to appeal against the said order dated 30th
June 2006 filed in the Court of Appeal bearing No. CA LA 274/06 is pending in that Court, and
appears to have been kept in abeyance until the present appeal is disposed of by the Supreme
Court. However, with his application for intervention, Tennakoon has produced in court
marked „A3‟, a copy of the Partnership Agreement dated 30th June 1988 purportedly signed by
Rangoda Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva and himself in the presence of two witnesses, which
expressly provides in clause 10 thereof that without the consent of all the other partners no
rights of the partners may be transferred or alienated or any new partners admitted into the
partnership. Furthermore, it is provided in clause 11 of the Agreement that upon the death or
resignation of any partner, any part of the capital or any profits payable to such partner shall be
paid to him or his legal representative or heir before the last day of the ensuring financial year.
Clause 12 expressly provides that 6 months prior written notice must be by a partner of intent to
resign from the partnership firm.
It has been submitted by the learned President‟s Counsel for the Defendant-Respondent-
Petitioner-Appellant Fernando, that the original action is a nullity ab initio and should be
dismissed in limine, inasmuch as the dispute relates to a partnership business of which
4

--- Page 5 ---
admittedly the capital exceeds one thousand rupees and no written partnership agreement has
been produced with the plaint. As such, he submits, it is not unnecessary to add the
Intervenient-Petitioner who claims to have been a partner but who resigned in 1989. I find it
difficult to agree with this submission as the case is still pending in the District Court, and the
fortunes of the parties cannot be predicted or prejudged at a stage when its trial has not even
commenced. In any event, as far as the Intervenient Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent
Tennakoon is concerned, there is no difficulty in this respect as he has produced the purported
Partnership Agreement signed by the original partner Rangoda Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva,
who is the deceased husband of the 2nd Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent-Respondent Geetha
Amarasinghe.
I also have a great deal of difficulty with the submission that Tennakoon resigned from the
partnership, which submission is in fact based on an averment in paragraph 6 of the Plaint
dated 31st May 2006 and paragraph 7 of the affidavit of the same date filed in the District Court
by E.V.T de Silva and Geetha Amarasinghe, as the only document relied for this purpose, which
is the extract of the Business Names Register dated 7th February 1989 marked DP(Y2) which is
merely a Statement of Change made under Section 7 of the Business Names Ordinance
unilaterally by the said Rangoda Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva, and there is nothing to suggest
that due notice of intention to resign had been given by Tennakoon as contemplated by Clause
12 of the Partnership Agreement dated 30th June 1988 (marked A3). Furthermore, the Statement
of Change marked DP(Y2) does not contain the signature of Tennakoon and cannot be
construed as a notice of resignation, and in the circumstances, there is insufficient material to
establish that Tennakoon had resigned from the partnership or his Attorney E.V.T de Silva has
been properly added as a partner of the firm. In terms of Clause 10 of the Partnership
Agreement produced by Tennakoon, no new partner could be introduced without the express
consent of all other partners, and the evidence at this stage is very much suggestive of a fraud
having been perpetrated by the Tennnakoon‟s Attorney E.V.T de Silva and his other partner
Rangoda Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva. If that be so, no amount of delay and laches can defeat
the claim of a person whose has been defrauded by his agent and / or partner both of who
stand in a fiduciary relationship with him.
The question has also been raised by learned President‟s Counsel as to whether the application
for intervention should be deemed to be in effect an action by Tennakoon to assert his rights,
and if so whether it has been prescribed in terms of Section 6 of the Prescription Ordinance
which lays down a time limit of 6 years for filing any action to “establish” a partnership.
However, the prescriptive period stipulated in that section begins to run only from “the date of
the breach of such partnership deed”, and Tennakoon has come to court on the basis that the
partnership between Rangoda Liyanarachchige Udaya Silva and himself came to an end by
operation of law upon the death of the former, on or about 5th June 2005. In terms of clause 11 of
the Partnership Agreement marked „A3‟ partnership accounts have to be settled after the
occurrence of any event that would ipso jure terminate the partnership such as death or
resignation of a partner, and Tennakoon may well be within the prescriptive period. In any
event, in my considered opinion, these are matters that can only be considered after trial in the
light of all the evidence led, and it is in my view premature to deny intervention to an
aggrieved party on the basis of pre-judgment.
It is in this context, necessary to refer to Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code No. 2 of 1889, as
subsequently amended, in terms of which the Intervenient Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent
Tennakoon sought to intervene into the action filed by E.V.T de Silva and Geetha Amarasinghe
against Fernando. The said section provides as follows:
5

--- Page 6 ---
“(1) The court may on or before the hearing, upon the application of either party, and on
such terms as the court thinks just, order that…………any plaintiff be made a defendant,
or that any defendant be made a plaintiff, and that the name of any person who ought to
have been joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, or whose presence before the court
may be necessary in order to enable the court effectually and completely to adjudicate
upon and settle all the questions involved in that action, be added.
(2) Every order for such amendment or for alteration of parties shall state the facts and
reasons which together form the ground on which the order is made. And in the case of
a party being added, the added party or parties shall be named, with the designation “
added party “, in all pleadings or processes or papers entitled in the action and made
after the date of the order.”
It is noteworthy that Section 19 of the Code expressly provides that no person shall be allowed
to intervene in a pending action otherwise than “pursuance of, and in conformity with, the
provisions of the last preceding section.” The aforesaid provisions have been considered and
commented upon in a large number of judgments of this Court, and learned Counsel
representing the contesting parties in this appeal have invited the attention of Court to several
of these decisions. However, it is not necessary to refer to all these decisions for the purpose of
disposing of this appeal, except to refer to the “narrow view” on intervention as elucidated by
Lord Coleridge, C.J. in Norris v. Beazley (1877) 2 CPD 80 which was to the effect that the words
of the corresponding statute in England “plainly imply that the defendant to be added must be
a defendant against whom the plaintiff has some cause of complaint which ought to be
determined in the action, and that it was never intended to apply where the person added as a
defendant is a person against whom the plaintiff has no claim and does not desire to Prosecute
any.” On this reasoning, learned President‟s Counsel for the Defendant-Respondent-Petitioner-
Appellant, Fernando submitted that the original plaintiffs de Silva and Amarasinghe had no
issue with Tennakoon, as they had sued Fernando on an altogether different partnership to the
one that Tennakoon claimed to be a party to. He further submitted that similarly, Fernando too
had no grouse with Tennakoon, as his partnership relationship with E.V.T de Silva and
Amarasinghe was one that was much more recent in origin, and was very much different in
character.
Learned Senior Counsel for Intervenient Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent, Tennakoon,
however, submitted that his client will be affected by any decision the court might make in the
original action, and in particular that he was aggrieved by the conduct of E.V.T de Silva and
Amarasinghe as well as that of Fernando. He relied on the “wider construction” placed on the
very same English provision by Lord Esher in Byrne v. Browne and Diplock (1889) 22 QBD 657 in
the following terms:-
“One of the chief objects of the Judicature Act was to secure that, whenever a Court can
see in the transaction brought before it that rights of one of the parties will or may be so
affected that under the forms of law other actions may be brought in respect of that
transaction, the Court shall have power to bring all the parties before it, and determine
the rights of all in one proceeding. It is not necessary that the evidence in the issues
raised by the new parties being brought in should be exactly the same: it is sufficient if
the main evidence and the main inquiry will be the same, and the Court then has the
power to bring in the new parties and adjudicate in one proceeding upon the rights of
all parties before it. Another great object was to diminish the cost of litigation. That
being so, the Court ought to give the largest construction to those acts in order to carry
out as far as possible the two objects I have mentioned.”
6

--- Page 7 ---
It is important to note that the conflicting views expressed by the English courts on this
question were considered by Ranasinghe, J., (as he then was) in the course of his seminal
judgment of in Arumugam Coomaraswamy v. Andiris Appuhamy and others (1985) 2 Sri LR 219. As
his Lordship observed at page 229 of the said judgment -
“On a consideration of the respective views . . . which have been expressed by the English
courts in regard to the nature and the extent of the construction to be placed upon the
rule regulating the addition of a person as a party to a proceeding which is already
pending in Court between two parties, the “wider construction” placed upon it by Lord
Esher, which has been set out above commends itself to me. The grounds which moved
Lord Esher to take a broad view, viz: to avoid a multiplicity of action and to diminish
the cost of litigation, seem to me, with respect, to be eminently reasonable and extremely
substantial. Lord Esher‟s view though given expression to more than a century ago, is
even today as constructive and acceptable.”
It is relevant to note that the above approach has been sanctioned by subsequent decisions of
this Court such as Hilda Enid Perera v. Somawathie Lokuge and Another (2000) 3 Sri LR 200 and a
large number of decisions of the Court of Appeal, and I have no hesitation in following the
wider construction expounded by Lord Esher. On that reasoning, it is abundantly clear that the
lower courts were justified in permitting the intervention in question and adding Tennakoon as
a party Defendant in all the circumstances of this case.
For the foregoing reasons, I am inclined to answer questions (a) to (f) on the basis of which
special leave to appeal was granted by this Court in the negative, and affirm the order of the
High Court of Civil Appeal dated 3rd December 2007. I do not make any order for costs in all the
circumstances of this case.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
TILAKAWARDANE, J
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
AMARATUNGA, J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
7