--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
In the matter of an application for
Appeal in terms of Section 5(c)
of the High Court of the Provinces
(Special Provisions) Amendment
Act No. 54 of 2006.
1. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Thilaka Chandralatha
Samaranayake,
Thalapitiya, Panawela,
Eheliyagoda.
2. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Vanitha Tulin
Samaranayake,
No.199, Malagala, Padukka.
Plaintiffs
SC Appeal No. 03/2016
SC HC (CA) LA No. 80/2015
WP/HCCA/AV/818/2008(F)
D.C. Pugoda Case No.480/P
V.
Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Oliver Ranjith
Samaranayake,
No. 926/6, Kotte Road, Ethul Kotte,
Kotte.
1

--- Page 2 ---
Defendant
AND BETWEEN
Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Oliver Ranjith
Samaranayake,
No. 926/6, Kotte Road, Ethul Kotte,
Kotte.
Defendant-Appellant
V.
1. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Thilaka Chandralatha
Samaranayake,
Thalapitiya, Panawela,
Eheliyagoda.
2. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Vanitha Tulin
Samaranayake,
No.199, Malagala, Padukka.
Plaintiffs-Respondents
AND NOW BETWEEN
1. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Thilaka Chandralatha
Samaranayake,
Thalapitiya, Panawela,
Eheliyagoda.
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Vanitha Tulin
Samaranayake,
No.199, Malagala, Padukka.
Plaintiffs-Respondents-Appellants
V.
Samaranayake Rajapaksha
Mudalige Oliver Ranjith
Samaranayake,
No. 926/6, Kotte Road, Ethul Kotte,
Kotte.
Defendant-Appellant-Respondent
Before : MAHINDA SAMAYAWARDHENA, J.
K. PRIYANTHA FERNANDO, J.
M. SAMPATH K. B. WIJERATNE, J.
Counsel : Chathura Galhena with Naduni Hemantha instructed
by Manoja Gunawardena for the Plaintiffs-
Respondents-Appellants.
Rohan Sahabandu, PC with Chathurika Elvitigala and
S. Senanayake instructed by Amila Kiripitigala for the
Defendant-Appellant-Respondent.
Argued on : 29.09.2025
3

--- Page 4 ---
Decided on : 04.11.2025
K. PRIYANTHA FERNANDO, J
1. This is an appeal from the judgment of the High Court of Civil Appeal,
Avissawella dated 23.01.2015 that held in favour of the Defendant-
Appellant-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as Defendant). The 1st
and 2nd Plaintiffs-Respondents-Appellants (hereinafter referred to as
Plaintiffs) preferred this appeal from the judgment of the High Court
that decided on the basis that the corpus of the subject matter has not
been properly identified.
Facts in Brief
2. The land in issue is described in the schedule to the amended Plaint
dated 22.12.1998. The Plaintiffs instituted action to partition the said
land between the Plaintiffs and the Defendant.
3. According to the amended Plaint, the Plaintiffs state that each of them
are entitled to 1/6 share of the said land and that the Defendant is
entitled to 4/6.
4. The Defendant, in the Statement of Claim, has stated that the land in
question has not been identified properly as there is a vast difference
in the extent of the land described in the amended Plaint and the
Preliminary Plan submitted by the Licenced Surveyor J. M. D. T. Patrick
Reginold, which is dated 13.12.2000 and is marked as “X”.
5. The learned District Judge, delivering her judgment dated 26.03.2008
held in favour of the Plaintiff and ordered the land to be partitioned as
prayed for in the amended Plaint.
6. Being aggrieved by the decision of the learned District Judge, the
Defendant preferred an appeal to the Civil Appellate High Court of
Avissawella.
4

--- Page 5 ---
7. Upon hearing of the Appeal, the Learned Judges of the High Court
delivered the judgment on 23.01.2015 allowing the Appeal and setting
aside the judgment of the District Court.
8. Being aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, the Plaintiffs
preferred the instant appeal to this Court. Leave to appeal was granted
on the questions of law set out in paragraphs 17 (iii) and 17 (iv) of the
Petition dated 04.03.2015.
Questions of Law
9. Paragraph 17;
“(iii) Did the Civil Appellate High Court err in dismissing the action due to
the disparity or variation in the extent in the corpus morefully described
in the schedule to the plaint and the corpus depicted in the preliminary
plan?
(iv) Did the Civil Appellate High Court fail to follow the decisions of the
Superior Courts in an instant of the disparity or variation in the extent of
the corpus and dismiss the action?”
Analysis of the Questions of Law
10. Section 18(1)(a)(iii) of the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977 states that;
(1) The surveyor shall duly execute the commission issued to him
and, in doing so shall, where any boundary of the land
surveyed by him is undefined, demarcate that boundary on
the ground by means of such boundary marks as are not
easily removed or destroyed and shall, on or before the date
fixed for the purpose, make due return thereto and shall transmit
to the court-
5

--- Page 6 ---
(a) a report, in duplicate, substantially in the form set out in
the Second Schedule to this Law, verified by affidavit
stating-
(i) …
(ii) …
(iii) whether or not the land surveyed by him is in
his opinion substantially the same as the land
sought to be partitioned as described in the
schedule to the plaint
(iv) …
[Emphasis mine]
11. In the case of Sopaya Silva and Another v. Magilin Silva [1989 02
Sri LR 105] at 108 it was stated by S.N. Silva, J. that;
“… If the land surveyed is substantially different from the land as
described in the schedule to the plaint, the Court has to decide at
that stage whether to issue instructions to the surveyor to carry
out a fresh survey in conformity with the commission or whether
the action should be proceeded with in respect of the land as
surveyed.”
12. The identification of the corpus is vital to a partition action and as stated
by Samayawardhena, J. in Thiththalapitige Ruban Perera v.
Thiththalapitige Tilakaratne and Another (SC/APPEAL/125/2016
S.C. Minutes of 21 May 2021);
“…In a partition action, if the corpus cannot be identified, ipso
facto, the action shall fail. There is no necessity to investigate title
until the corpus is properly identified. The decision that the corpus
has not been properly identified decides the fate of the action
6

--- Page 7 ---
without further ado. This underscores the great care with which
this decision shall be taken by Court. It shall not be used asa
convenient method to summarily dispose of long-drawn-out
and complicated partition actions without embarking on the
arduous task of investigating the title of each party.”
[Emphasis mine]
In that case the discrepancy in the extent was considered not to be a
ground for the dismissal of the partition action as the Surveyor’s Report
depicts satisfactory findings and as the Deeds through which rights are
claimed are consistent with the Plaint.

13. In light of the above, I will take into account the following facts and
arguments in relation to the discrepancy of the extent of the land in
question.

14. The Schedule to the amended Plaint marked “A” describes the land as
follows;

“Awem8S ඵළානෙ 0880 දදන්තතයේ Bux; oms/oEgod OwWAD aa’Qcd
BOBAIISE BID ෆල්වලවන්න 60 DCHOHWODD ට OBO: CQIO HCOEC aH
මනබාවල DAC දා, නැගෙනහරට දොනං' Fows SACD නොනාර ර්‌ QONDOwOS QHO co
rae දෲ දක්‍රණට ඊ. ඒ. a අජ්ප්‍ර්‍යාගිට 30 DO අයට අරන්‌ QO® දෲ Désen9H5O
රාජපක්ෂ ලියනගේ kG පෙරේරා 60 නව අයට රන්‌ 9O® දෲ රන මෙහ්‌ DE අක්කර
වි්‍යසකත 304 විශාල...”

15. The Deeds marked “P2” and “P3” dated 07.04.1944 through which the
Plaintiffs and the Defendant derived title also describe the land in the
same manner.

16. On the other hand, the Preliminary Plan marked “X” prepared by
Licenced Surveyor J. M. D. T. Patrick Reginold and dated 13.12.2000,
describes the land as follows;

© 690 - ගම්මුන්ට අරන්‌ ක්‍රඹර, HC, ආල්වල BH MACH DAT
7

--- Page 8 ---
© නැගෙනඒඊර - ෆලවල, කැක්‍රල්පාය DAC 60 GEE weed BN DOD 50 අරන්‌
ඉවඹාම

© උක්‍රණ - ල්‍ය රරනලක, ඵුවන” රරනලක ඝ්‍ය මැරකල” SHBCD 62) අයට අරන QHO,
පාර, BOC’ MOGAISEO ආරන්‌ 9H@ ස ඒ. ඒ ඒ. J. සෙනෙව්රනනට අරන්‌ ඉවග

© DBMS - 5OCCHN රාජපක්ෂට අරන්‌ ඉම, 8. ඒ 2030; How සෲ නවන"“ආඅයට
අරන්‌ GOO 60 OOG2O අයින්‌ DOO.

e The extent has been stated as 14 Acres and 14 Perches.

17. The Surveyor’s Report, dated 13.12.2000, submitted as per Section
18(1)(a)(iii) of the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977, can be found on page
336 of the Appeal Brief. As per paragraph 5 of the said Report it is
evident that the Surveyor is satisfied that the surveyed land is the same
land that has been described in the schedule to the amended Plaint. The
Report reads as follows:

“ORD ලද ඉඞම පැමිණිල්ලේ” coeCaned Benet ඉඞම්‌ ව”
Further, the Report also states that all parties were present during the
surveying of the land.

18. It is the Defendant’s current position, by way of written submissions,
that the reason for the discrepancy in extent is because the Schedule to
the Amended Plaint depicts an amalgamation of two lands named
“ආල්වලවන්න” and “aeyouvda’a”. However, the Defendant has admitted at
the Trial stage that the land in question was in fact 20 Acres in extent.
Further, the Defendant has not marked any Deed or Plan at the Trial
stage to establish this contention.

19. It is further evident through the first Plaintiff's evidence during cross-
examination at the Trial stage that “o@de@aa'»” and “aeyouda’>” both
refer to the land named “#@®e2n’>” and that “ආල්වලවන/න” was the more
commonly used name.

8

--- Page 9 ---
20. Therefore, taking the above into consideration, I am of the view that the
mere discrepancy in the extent of the land in the Schedule to the
amended Plaint and the Preliminary Plan should not warrant a
dismissal of the Partition action.

21. I will now take into consideration the submissions by the parties on the
variations of the boundaries of the said land.

22. When perusing the evidence recorded in the District Court of Pugoda, it
is clear that the Licenced Surveyor J. M. D. T. Patrick Reginold has
admitted that that the land he surveyed is the same land that was
surveyed by him as the boundaries were the same. I will reproduce the
relevant excerpts for clarity:

“a: නමා wzBOD0 ost වෙනවාද පැමිණිල්ලේ" CooCaAned නමන උනරු මාශ්මක

නා මැනන උනරු O8@Ox ආරිය Bas?

Cc. ඔව්‌”

(Vide page 133-4 of the Appeal Brief)

“දාං දක්‍රණ මාරම we EBO Ba) aoe?

උං නටඛ්‍රණා”

(Vide page 136 of the Appeal Brief)

“පාං DIMES මාර්ග නටනවා තියලා wBOWO ආාන්ව්‍රණාදව

Cc. ඔව්‌”

(Vide page 138 of the Appeal Brief)
It is evident that the Licenced Surveyor J. M. D. T. Patrick Reginold was
able to identify 3 out of the 4 boundaries of the land in question.

9

--- Page 10 ---
23. While there are slight differences in the names of the boundaries, I will
draw attention to the following excerpt by Samayawardhena, J. in the
judgment of Thiththalapitige Ruban Perera v. Thiththalapitige
Tilakaratne and Another (supra):
“…the Surveyor went to the land 76 years after the execution of
the earliest known Deed. One cannot expect the boundaries of land
in Gampaha to remain unchanged for 76 years. … In the
Preliminary Plan, the Surveyor records the existing boundaries. In
doing so, he gives the names of the present owners.”
24. Similarly, in the instant case too, the Surveyor’s Preliminary Plan is
made in the year 2000 while the Deeds marked “P2” and “P3” are dated
07.04.1944. Thus, realistically one cannot expect the boundaries of a
land and their owners to remain unchanged for a period of
approximately 56 years.
25. Therefore, I answer the first question of law in the affirmative that the
Civil Appellate High Court has erred in dismissing the action due to the
disparity or variation in the extent in the corpus morefully described in
the schedule to the plaint and the corpus depicted in the Preliminary
Plan.
26. In relation to the second question of law, the learned President’s Counsel
for the Defendant, in his written submissions, has referred to several
judgments of this Court throughout several years which have dealt with
issues regarding discrepancies in the extent of a land. However, these
case laws are distinguishable from the case at hand on both legal and
factual premises.
27. Therefore, taking the above into account, I affirm that the corpus has
sufficiently been identified. The learned District Judge has correctly
addressed all aspects in detail having regard to the evidence before the
Court. The two questions of law are answered in the affirmative.
10

--- Page 11 ---
28. Hence, I set aside the judgment of the Civil Appellate High Court of
Avissawella dated 23.01.2015 and uphold the judgment of the District
Court of Pugoda dated 26.03.2008.
Appeal is allowed
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE MAHINDA SAMAYAWARDHENA
I agree
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE M. SAMPATH K.B. WIJERATNE
I agree
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
11