--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
In the matter of an application for
Substitution under Section 760A of the
Civil Procedure Code and Rule 38 of
the court of appeal (Appellate
Procedure) Rules of 1990.
Horagalage Sopinona
No. 400, Porikiyahena,
Pitipana South,
Homagama.
Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent-
Appellant
S. C. Appeal No. 49/2003
S. C. (Spl.) L. A. No. 01/2003 -VS-
C. A. No. 631/98/F
D. C. Homagama Case No. 247/P
3(a) Kumara Ratnakeerthi Pitipanaarachchi
No. 364,
Pitipana South,
Homagama.
3(b) Ramya Chandrakumari
Pitipanaarachchi
No. 364,
Pitipana South,
Homagama.
Substituted Defendants-Appellants-
Respondents
41. Matarage Menchinona,
No. 363,
Porikiyahena,
Pitipana South,
Homagama.
Defendant-Appellant-Respondent
1

--- Page 2 ---
BEFORE : Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J;
Saleem Marsoof, P.C., J. and
J. de S. Balapatabandi, J.
COUNSEL : Nihal Jayamanne, P.C., Noorani Amarasinghe with
Dilhan de Silva for Appellant.
Rohan Sahabandu for Respondents.
ARGUED ON : 13.01.2009
WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS : 2.2.2009
DECIDED ON : 3.2.2010
MARSOOF, J.
Over four decades ago, on 29th January 1969 the original Plaintiff-Respondent-
Appellant, Welapahala Arachchige Remanis, of Pitipana South, Homagama, instituted
action in the District Court of Colombo seeking to partition a land called “Porikehena”,
in extent 3 roods and 11 perches and situated in the village of Pitipana in the
Hewagam Korale then falling within the Colombo District. The action was contested
only by the 1st, 3rd and 19th Defendants, out of the 40 persons named as Defendants in
the plaint. The land sought to be partitioned was described in the schedule to the
plaint by reference to Plan No. 167058 dated 2nd July 1895 authenticated by D. G.
Mantale, Surveyor General, and referred to in Crown Grant No. 30258 dated 28th
December 1895 (P1), by which the said land was granted to Remanis‟s grandfather
Pitipana Achachchige Jeeris jointly with another person named Thantirige Haramanis,
of the same village. The said Jeeris had four children, one of whom was Sethuhamy,
who was admittedly the mother of the original Plaintiff, Remanis.
It must be mentioned at the outset that this case has had a long and checkered history,
despite the fact that after the initial steps that necessarily take time in partition cases,
the trial had commenced and was concluded on 24th March 1975. Since Remanis had
died prior to the said trial date, his widow, Poragalage Sopinona (hereinafter referred
to as “the Appellant”) who had been substituted in his place, and another witness,
Thantirige Carolis, testified on behalf of the Appellant. On behalf of the contesting
Defendant-Appellant-Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the “Respondents”),
Pitipana Arachchige Tikonis, the original 1st Defendant, and Matarage Menchinona,
who had been substitued as the 41st Defendant in place her deceased husband Pitipana
Arachchige Obias, gave evidence. However, before the judgement was delivered in
this case, the case was transferred to the newly established District Court of
Homagama and trial commenced de novo on 23rd April 1992.
At the commencement of the fresh trial before the District Court of Homagama on 23rd
April 1992, the parties admitted that the land described in the schedule to the plaint is
2

--- Page 3 ---
shown in the Preliminary Plan No. 255 dated 6th July 1970 and certified by A.P.S
Gunawardene, Licenced Surveyor, and that Emis, Sadiris, Charlis and Sethuhamy are
the heirs of Jeeris. It is noteworthy that the said Preliminary Plan bearing No. 255
depicts two lots marked as „A‟ and „B‟ respectively in extent 2 roods and 26.8 perches
and 1 rood and 30.05 perches, which add up to a land extent of 1 acre and 16.85
perches. This is far in excess of the corpus as described in the schedule to the plaint
which is only 3 roods and 11.9 perches. The Respondents, although admitting that the
land described in the schedule to the plaint is shown in the Preliminary Plan No. 255,
had alluded to this discrepancy at paragraph 20 of their answer, and asserted that after
the death of Jeeris, the land called Porikehena which he had possessed by virtue of the
Crown Grant, was amalgamated with two other lands separately owned by him
namely, Indipitiya and Mahakele Mukalana, and Plan No. 1868 dated 27th July 1940
certified by D.A. Goonatilleka, Licenced Surveyor (3D1) was prepared to amicably
divide the amalgamated land amongst his heirs Emis, Sadiris, Charlis and Sethuhamy.
It was the case of the Respondents that accordingly, lot „A‟ of the said Plan was
allotted to Charlis, while lots „B‟ and „E‟ were allotted to Emis, and lots „C‟ and „D‟
respectively were allotted to Sadris and Sethuhamy, and that they continued to
possess the said lots as defined and divided portions of land for the exclusion of all
others.
The issues that were raised at the commencement of the trial are set out below.
On behalf of the Appellant
(1) Are the parties mentioned in the plaint entitled to the land described in
the schedule to the plaint by virtue of the pedigree set out in the plaint
and prescription?
On behalf of the Defendant
(2) Did Jeeris Appu possess the land which is the subject matter of this case
and two other lands, namely, Indipitiya and Mukalana situated adjoining
the said land as one piece of land (tl bXula jYfhka)?
(3) Did Jeeris Appu‟s children Emis, Sadiris, Charlis and Sethuhamy possess
the aforesaid three lands as one piece of land?
(4) Did the aforesaid four persons after possessing the aforesaid three lands
as one amicably partition of the said lands among themselves by Plan
No. 1868 dated 27th June 1940?
(5) Accordingly, did Sethuhamy possess lot „D‟, Sadiris possess lot „C‟, Emis
possess lots „B‟ and „E‟ and Charlis possess lot „A‟ of the said Plan?
(6) Did Sethuhami sell her rights to lot „D‟ to the Plaintiff (who is her son
and the present Appellant) by Deed No. 1845 dated 3rd February 1950?
3

--- Page 4 ---
(7) If answer to the above question is in the affirmative, can Plaintiff act in a
manner inconsistent with the amicable partition effected by Plan No.
1868?
(8) Are lots „A‟ and „E‟ of Plan No. 1868, the same as the lot „A‟ and „B‟ of
Plan No. 255 prepared for this case?
(9) Are any portion of the aforesaid two lands own by the Plaintiff or other
parties mentioned in his pedigree?
Apart from these issues certain additional issues were also formulated on the
suggestion of Counsel for the Appellant and Counsel for the Respondents as issues
(10) to (14) which seek to further clarify the matters on which parties were at variance.
While at the trial de novo the same witnesses, Sopinona and Carolis, testified on behalf
of the Appellant, since the original 1st Defendant Tikonis had passed away, the original
3rd Defendant, Pitipana Arachchige Cornelis alone gave evidence on behalf of the
Respondents. The question that loomed large at the trial was whether Jeeris had
possessed the land sought to be partitioned to the exclusion of Haramanis, and in
particular whether the amalgamation of the said land with his other lands Indipitiya
and Mahakele Mukalana, and the allotment of distinct portions of the amalgamated
land to Emis, Sadiris, Charlis and Sethuhamy as set out in the Plan No. 1868 dated 27th
June 1940 (3D1), constituted evidence of ouster.
The learned District Judge, held with the Appellant, and in the course of her
judgement dated 4th September 1998, agreed with the submissions made on behalf of
the Appellant that Jeeris or Jeeris‟ heirs, who are entitled only to an undivided half
share of the land, cannot prescribe to the other undivided half share of Haramanis
since a co-owner cannot in law prescribe against his other co-owner in the absence of
proof of ouster. The learned District Judge observed that-
“;rÕ lrk js;a;slrejkaf.a ysuslï m%ldYfhka cSrsia wmamqg meusKs,af,a Wmf,aLKfha i|yka bvu whs;s
jQ moku meyeos,s fkdlrhs' flfia fj;;a tu ysuslï m%ldYfha 02 fjks fPaoh wkQj cSrsia wmamqg
meusKs,af,a Wmf,aLKfha i|yka bvfus tlu whs;slre jYfhka nqla;s js| ld,djfrdaOS whs;sh ,nd we;s
w;r yrudksia l%shd l<d kï l%shd lf,a cSrsia wmamqf.a ksfhdacs;fhla jYfhka nj m%ldY lrhs' tnejska
yrudksiago fuu foamf,ka 1$2 fldgil whs;sh ;snS we;s nejska Tyq tu foam, nqla;s js|Sfuka muKla
Tyqf.a whs;sh cSrsia wmamqg mejfrkafka ke;' cSrsiag tu whs;sh mejfrkafka yrudksia ;u whs;sh w;yer
fkdf.dia tkï yrudksiag tfrysj ld,djfrdaOS whs;shla mejfrkafka kï fkrmd yerSula (ouster)
fmkakqï l< hq;=h' tkï fuu kvqfjs tjeks fkrmd yerSula u; yjq,a whs;sh ysusjS we;s wdldrhla
fkdolajhs' tnejska yjq,a whs;sh kS;sh mj;sk wdldrhg yrudksiag tfiAu fkdfnÿ 1$2l fldgilg
;snsh hq;=h' cSrsiaf.a Wreuh iïnkaOfhka ;¾lhla ke;' ;rÕ lrk js;a;slrejka yrudksiaf.a whs;sh
m%;slafIam lr we;s w;r Tyqf.a whs;sh we;af;a fyda we;akï th cSrsiaf.a ksfhdacs;fhla f,i muKla nj
ysuslï m%ldYfha i|yka lr we;'”
Accordingly, the Learned District Judge answered issue No. 1 raised by the Appellant
in her favour, and refrained from answering any of the other issues on the basis that
they did not arise. I quote below the final paragraph of the said judgment-
“ta wkQj bosrsm;a lr we;s Tmamq yd idlaIs wkQj ;ka;srsf.a yrudksia fuu bvfus yjq,a whs;slrefjl=
jYfhka isgs nj ms<s.; hq;=h' by; cSrsia wmamq iuÕ fuu fnoSug fhdacs; bvu uq,skau yjq,a
whs;slrefjl= jYfhka isgs nj ms<s.; hq;=h' yrudksiaf.a tu whs;sh Tyq my lsrSulska ke;sjS ke;'
4

--- Page 5 ---
tnejska fuu bvfus Tmamq ish,a,u i<ld ne,SfusoS wOslrKh iEySulg m;a jS we;af;a me' 1 orK rcfha
m;%h u.ska cSrsia wmamqg yd yrudksiag fuu fnoSug fhdacs; bvfuka fkdfnÿ 1$2 l fldgi ne.ska ysusjS
we;s w;ru tu fnoSug fhdacs; bvu wxl 255 orK ie,eiafuka fmkakqï lr we;;a tu fnoSu yrudksia
f.a tlÕ;ajh we;sj lrk ,o fnoSula fkdjk w;r lïns .id fjka lrk ,ÿj idok ,o fnoSula o
fkdjk w;r tu fnoSfuka fmkakqï lrk bvu tkï wxl( 1868 orK ie,eiau fuu kvqjg wod<
ie,eiau f,i Tjqkaf.a ms<s.ekSï j,skau m%;slafIam jS we;' ta wkQj md¾Yjlrejkag Tjqkaf.a fldgia
ysusjsh hq;af;a meusKs,af,a i|yka fm<m; wkqj hehs uu ;SrKh lrus' ta wkQj fuu kvqfjs meusKs,a,
jsiska 15 fjks fPaofha fmkakqï lr we;s wdldrhg md¾Yjlrejkag ;u fldgia ysusjsh hq;=hehs ud ;SrKh
lrus' jsi|kdjka j,g fufia ms<s;=re fous'
01' Tõ'
by; i|yka jsi|kdjg meusKs,af,a jdishg ms<s;=re ,enS we;s nejska wfkla jsi|kdjkag ms<s;=re oSu
wjYHh ke;.”
Aggrieved by this decision, the 3rd and 41st Respondents appealed to the Court of
Appeal. It was submitted on behalf of the Respondents that the learned District judge
had not considered all the documentary and other evidence tendered on behalf of the
Respondents and had thereby failed to discharge her duty to properly investigate title.
In allowing the appeal, Andrew Somawansa, J., in the course of his judgement dated
22nd November 2002 with which N.E. Dissanayake, J. concurred, noted that while 5
deeds were marked by the Appellant and 9 marked by the Respondents, the learned
District Judge had considered only 4 of the said deeds. Somawansa, J. held that the
learned District Judge had seriously erred in seeking to dispose of the whole case
through his answer to issue No. 1. his Lordship observed that-
„Here again, I am of the view that she has erred in not answering the balance
issues. For issue No. 1 is based not only on devolution of title but also on
prescription. Therefore it becomes necessary to consider and analyse the
evidence to ascertain whether parties disclosed in the plaint had prescribed
which the learned District Judge has failed to do.”
Accordingly, Somawansa, J. concluded that-
“Had she answered them, this Court would be in a position to consider her
findings on the said issues. However, as she has failed to answer the rest of the
issues, though with reluctance, I am compelled to set aside the judgement of the
learned District Judge and send the case back for re-trial.”
This Court has granted special leave to appeal against the said judgement of the Court
of Appeal on the following questions of law:-
“(a) Whether in law there was sufficient investigation of title of the parties by
the original court;
(b) Whether all issues need be answered by the District Judge when the
answer to one issue alone sufficiently determines the title of the parties to
the land both on deeds and on prescription;
5

--- Page 6 ---
(c) Whether, if the answer to a single issue, in effect is a complete answer to
all the contents in the action, whether it is necessary and incumbent on
the District Judge to give specific answers to the other issues. Specially,
if in arriving at the answer to the issue the Learned District Judge has
considered and dealt with the matters raised in the other issues.”
Identity of the Corpus
Before dealing with the first substantial question of law on which special leave has
been granted by this Court in this appeal, it is necessary to deal with the question of
identity of the land sought to be partitioned, which is a matter of vital importance in
any partition case. Without proper identification of the corpus it would be impossible
to conduct a proper investigation of title. As G.P.S. de Silva, J. (as he then was)
emphasized in the course of his judgement in Wickremaretne v. Albenis Perera [1986] 1
Sri LR 190 at 199, in a partition action, “there are certain duties cast on the court quite
apart from objections that may or may not be taken by the parties” and this includes
the “supervening duty to satisfy itself as to the identity of the corpus and also as to the
title of each and every party who claims title to it.” In Jayasooriya v Ubaid 61 NLR 352 at
353 Sansoni, J. observed that “there is no question that there was a duty cast on the
Judge to satisfy himself as to the identity of the land sought to be partitioned, and for
this purpose it was always open to him to call for further evidence in order to make a
proper investigation.” This is because clarity in regard to the identity of the corpus is
fundamental to the investigation of title in a partition case.
In this connection, it is necessary to observe that in the plaint filed in this case, the
original Plaintiff Remanis sought to partition the land described as Porikehena in
extent 3 roods and 11 perches. However, as already noted, the Preliminary Plan No.
255 covers a much larger extent of 1 acre and 16.85 perches, which is far in excess of
the land described in the schedule to the plaint and covered by the Crown Grant No.
30258, dated 28th December 1895 (P1) from which the Appellant claims to have derived
title. Despite the said discrepancy in the extent of land being adverted to in paragraph
20 of the answer filed by the contesting Respondents, at the commencement of the trial
de novo on 23rd April 1992 all parties to the action admitted that the said Plan depicts
the land described in the scheduled to the plaint and sought to be partitioned, and no
point of contest or issue was raised in regard to the identity of the corpus. However,
when Carolis Singho gave evidence on 21st August 1997 he spoke about the
discrepancy in the land extent, and his Counsel moved to raise two more issues in
regard to the failure to properly register lis pendens, which application was turned
down by the learned District Judge on the ground that this aspect of the matter should
have been taken up before the commencement of the trial.
There exists a lack of clarity, even amongst each of the parties themselves, with regard
to the description of the corpus described in the schedule to the plaint as Porikehena in
extent 3 roods and 11 perches by reference to Plan No. 167058 dated 2nd July 1895
authenticated by D. G. Mantale, Surveyor General. This Plan was not produced in
court by any of the parties. It must be noted, that lots „A‟ and „E‟ of Plan No. 1868
dated 27th July 1940 and prepared by Licensed Surveyor M. D. A. Goonatilleka (3D1)
showing parts of Porikehena which were subjected to the amicable partition amongst
6

--- Page 7 ---
Jeeris‟s heirs, also add up to an extent of 3 roods and 11 perches, and a
superimposition of the said lots „A‟ and „E‟ of the said Plan on the Preliminary Plan
No. 255 dated 11th October 1970 prepared by Licensed Surveyor A. P. S. Gunawardena
clearly shows that the said Preliminary Plan depicts a land extent of 1 acre and 16.85
perches which exceeds the land claimed by the Appellant as well as by the Respondents by
approximately 1 rood and 5.85 perches. The Respondents, in their evidence and
submissions at the various stages of this case, have sometimes seemingly admitted the
corpus as described in the plaint to be Porikehena, despite the aforesaid disparity, and
at other times sought to challenge this position. The parties have not shown
consistency in this regard, and failed in their preliminary duty to describe adequately
and with clarity the corpus being the subject matter of these proceedings.
The identity of the corpus is also a matter of fundamental importance in ensuring that
all persons who have any claim to it to participate in the partition action, which
ultimately confers title in rem. The Partition Act No 16 of 1951, that was applicable at
the time of the institution of the action in 1969, provided for the registration of lis
pendens and other steps which had as their objective the proper investigation of title. It
appears from the original record maintained in the District Court which was called for
by this Court, that lis pendens was registered in terms of Section 6 of the Partition Act
on 13th February 1969 in folio G 384/48 at the Land Registry with respect to the land
referred to in the schedule to the plaint in extent 3 roods and 11 perches. However, an
examination of the journal entries in the original record maintained in the District
Court in this case (from 18th April 1989, being the date of the reconstruction of the
record after the original record was destroyed by fire) did not show any evidence that
lis pendens was registered for the larger extent of land depicted in the Preliminary Plan
No. 255 in extent 1 acre and 16.85 perches, and the fact that learned Counsel for Carolis
Singho on 21st August 1997 sought to raise two additional issues in this regard
suggests that in fact that there was no such registration.
It has been expressly provided in Section 23(3) of the Partition Act of 1951 that where a
survey made on a commission issued by court in a partition case “discloses that the
land described in the plaint is only a portion of a larger land which should have been
made the subject matter of the action, the court shall specify the party to the action by
whom, and the date on or before which, an application for the registration of the action
as a lis pendens affecting that larger land shall be filed in court” to enable the filing of lis
pendens showing the larger land and taking other mandatory steps under the Act,
which are necessary to ensure that all interested parties are before court. The District
Court has ordered the partitioning of the said larger portion of land depicted in
Preliminary Plan No. 255 consisting of 1 acre and 16.85 perches, which far exceeds the
land described in the schedule to the plaint, and in the absence of material to show that
Section 23 of the Partition Act was complied with, raises serious doubts as to the
regularity and legality of the impugned decision of the District Court in this case.
Sufficiency of Investigation of Title
The first substantial question of law on which special leave to appeal was granted
against the decision of the Court of Appeal is whether in law there was sufficient
investigation of title by the original court. Learned President‟s Counsel for the
7

--- Page 8 ---
Appellant strenuously contended that there was, and learned Counsel for the
Respondents argued with equal force that there was not.
It is trite law that, in a partition suit which is instituted to bring an end to co-
ownership of land through a decree which is binding not only on the parties to the suit
but in rem over the entirety of society, the dispute is not to be settled on issues alone,
but on any points of interest that the court sees fit in discharging its sacred duty for the
full investigation of title. As was observed by Layard, C.J. in Mather v. Thamotharam
Pillai 6 NLR 246 at pages 250 to 251,
“…..the question to be decided in a partition suit is not merely matters between
parties which may be decided in a civil action; the Court has to decide in every
such suit matters in respect of which the parties need not necessarily be in
dispute and on which in this particular suit they are not at issue, viz., that the
land is held in common by the plaintiff and defendants, and they solely have title to the
land sought to be partitioned. The Court has not only to decide the matters in
which the parties are in dispute, but to safeguard the interests of others who are
no parties to the suit, who will be bound by a decree for partition made by the
Court under the provisions of the Ordinance.”(Italics added)
Layard, C.J. was there interpreting the Partition Ordinance No. 10 of 1863, which has
since been repealed, but the same obligation is cast on the court by the provisions of
the Partition Act No. 16 of 1951 which applied at the time of institution of the action
from which this appeal arises. In fact, dicta from the judgement of Layard, C.J. were
quoted with approval by G.P.S de Silva, C.J. in Gnanapandithen and Another v.
Balanayagam and Another [1998] 1 Sri LR 391 which was decided under the provisions
of the current legislation on the subject, namely, the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977, as
subsequently amended, which replaced the Partition Act of 1951. A basic principle in
all the enactments is that where there has been no proper investigation of title, any
resulting partition decree necessarily has to be set aside.
In the context of the stringent legal provisions of the relevant legislation, learned
Counsel for the Respondent submitted the Appellant has failed to establish that the
land is held in common by the Appellant and Respondents, and that the Respondents
solely have title to the land sought to be partitioned. He submitted that it was clear
from the evidence that Haramanis never possessed Porikehena, that Jeeris and his
heirs alone possessed the entirety of Porikehena along with the two adjoining lands
called Indipitiya and Mahakele Mukalana and had in fact, over the course of 30 years
of exclusive possession, prescribed to Porikehena as against the said Haramanis. It was
submitted by learned Counsel for the Respondents that any instance at which
Haramanis had acted in relation to Porikehena is explicable on the basis that he
functioned as an agent of Jeeris. He explained that when Jeeris died leaving as his heirs
Emis, Sadiris, Charlis and Sethuhamy who continued to possess all three lands in
common, they put an end to their common ownership by amalgamating and amicably
divided the said lands among themselves by Partition Plan No. 1868 dated 27th July
1940 certified by D.A. Goonatilleka, Licenced Surveyor (3D1). Learned Counsel for the
Respondents submitted that the said lots „A‟ and „E‟ were by the said Plan marked
3D1, apportioned to Charlis and Emis respectively, and that lot „A‟ was subsequently
8

--- Page 9 ---
transferred to Obies (the original 13th Defendant) whose widow Matarage Menchinona
(the 41st Substituted Defendant) now contests the Appellant‟s case along with the issue
of Pitipana Aratchige Cornelis (the 3rd Defendant) who it was submitted gained title to
Lot „E‟ from Emis.
It was further submitted by the learned Counsel for the Respondents that the
Appellant, only had title to parts of Lot „D‟ of Plan No. 1868 (3D1) through Sethuhamy
and Sethuhamy‟s son, Welapahala Arachchige Remanis, her late husband who was the
original Plaintiff. It was his contention that the exclusive, undisturbed and
uninterrupted possession by the Respondents of defined and divided lots along with
the other parties to the 1940 division, prior to, or at least, from the date of the said
division, defeated through prescription the co-ownership established by the initial
Crown Grant. It was also submitted by learned Counsel for the Respondents that the
Appellant‟s case was doomed to fail as the identity of the corpus was in grave doubt,
and additionally, as the land known as Porikehena ceased to exist as a distinct land its
following amalgamation in 1940 with Indipitiya and Mahakele Mukalana. Learned
Counsel for the Respondent stressed that the Appellant is legally bound by this
division as Sethuhamy, the mother of Remanis, who had participated in the division
had executed Deed No. 1845 marked as 3D3, whereby she conveyed lot „D‟ of Plan No.
1868 (3D1) to Remanis. He contended that by accepting the said conveyance,
Sethuhamy precluded herself as well as her successors-in-title, from disputing the
validity of 3D1. He submitted that the Appellant, who is the widow of Remanis, by
claiming title based on the said Deed No. 1845 (3D3) and her own testimony in court,
had admitted the said amalgamation and division, vitiating her right to claim
otherwise.
Learned President‟s Counsel for the Appellant submitted that the original court has
adequately discharged its obligation of satisfying itself that the land described in the
schedule to the plaint (1) was held in common; and (2) that that title devolved on the
parties in the manner and to the extent as set out in the plaint. He submitted that by
virtue of Crown Grant No. 30258, dated 28th December 1895 (P1), Pitipana Arachchige
Jeeris and one Thantirige Haramanis, became entitled to equal shares in the land
sought to be partitioned called Porikehena, in extent 3 roods and 11 perches. He
further submitted that the said Haramanis and Jeeris owned two lands in common,
namely, Porikehena, the corpus sought to be partitioned in the action which led to this
appeal, and Kirigaldeniya. It was his contention that while Jeeris lived on Porikehena
and Haramanis lived on Kirigaldeniya, neither did Jeeris give up his rights to
Kirigaldeniya nor did Haramanis give up his rights to Porikehena. He submitted that
this position is evidenced by the fact that the heirs of Jeeris had sold rights in
Kirigaldeniya on Deed No. 7066 dated 15th August 1922 attested by D.T.S.S. Jayatilake,
Notary Public (P4) to the heirs of Haramanis and that some heirs of Haramanis had in
turn sold by Deed No. 1874, dated 17th October 1967 (P2), rights in Porikehena to the
heirs of Jeeris, including the original Plaintiff, Welapahala Arachchige Remanis. He
submitted that the District Court had examined all relevant evidence carefully, and
was justified in upholding the claim of the Appellant for a 21/48th share of Porikehena
under the said purchase from the heirs of Haramanis, and a further 1/56th share of
Porikehena under the birth right of her deceased husband Remanis, as an heir of Jeeris.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Learned President‟s Counsel for the Appellant emphasised that Jeeris and Haramanis,
being co-owners, their undivided rights cannot be prescribed by each other, in the
absence of clear evidence of ouster or something equivalent to ouster. He relied on the
decisions of our Court in Corea v. Appuhamy 15 NLR 65 and Tillekeratne v. Bastian 21
NLR 12, and also refered to the decision in Maria Fernando and Another v. Anthony
Fernando (1997) 2 Sri LR 356, in which at page 360 Wignesweran, J. observes as follows:
“Whether ouster may be presumed from long, continued, undisturbed, and
uninterrupted possession depends on all the circumstances in each case. (vide,
Siyadoris v. Simon 30 CLW 50).”
It is a well established principle in the Roman-Dutch Law that “the possession of one
co-owner is, in law, the possession of the other.” G.L. Pieris, The Law of Property in Sri
Lanka Vol. 1 at p. 359. In the celebrated case of Corea v. Appuhamy (supra) the Privy
Council laid down in unequivocal terms that every co-owner must be presumed to be
possessing in the capacity of co-owner, and that as Lord MacNaghten put it at page 78
of his judgement -
“His possession was in law the possession of his co-owners. It was not possible
for him to put an end to that possession by any secret intention in his mind.
Nothing short of ouster or something equivalent to ouster could bring about
that result.”
In Tillekaratne v. Bastian (supra) a Full Bench of the Supreme Court drawing from the
principles of the common law in Ceylon, as it then was, and in England, from where
our Prescription Ordinance has drawn much influence, Bertram, C.J. set out that our
law on prescription, both in situations arising out of co-ownership and otherwise,
must be approached by equating the previously unknown and abstract term “ouster”
to a simple question as to whether the possession in question was or has become
“adverse”. At page 18 of his judgement, Betram, C.J. observed that -
“What, then, is the real effect of the decision in Corea v. Appuhamy (supra) upon
the interpretation of the word “adverse” with reference to cases of co-
ownership? It is, as I understand it, that for the purpose of these cases the word
“adverse” must, in its application to, any particular case, be interpreted in the
light of three principles of law:-
(i) Every co-owner having a right to possess and enjoy the whole property and
every part of it, the possession of one co-owner in that capacity is in law the
possession of all.
(ii) Where the circumstances are such that a man‟s possession may be referable
either to an unlawful act or to a lawful title, he is presumed to possess by virtue
of the lawful title.
(iii) A person who has entered into possession of land in one capacity is
presumed to continue to possess it in the same capacity.”
10

--- Page 11 ---
While the first of the above principles is one of substantive law, the second and third
principles are presumptions, and thus, principles of the law of evidence. It is the
applicability of the third of these principles, which has been the basis of our decisions
on this difficult area of law, and must decide question of the ownership of Porikehena.
The effect of this principle is that, where any person's possession was originally not
adverse, and he claims that it has become adverse, the onus is on him to prove it. In
doing so, he is required not only to prove an intention on his part to possess adversely,
but also a manifestation of that intention to the true owner against whom he sets up his
possession. Considering recent decisions such as Maria Fernando v. Anthony Fernando
(supra), authorities remain prone today as they were in 1918 as observed by Bertram,
C.J., to emphasize the definite and heavy burden cast upon the assertor to prove “an
overt unequivocal act.”
However, it must not be forgotten that Bertram, C.J. himself acknowledged that there
can be no hard and fast rules in this regard, and in particular, the evidentiary principle
that a person who has entered into possession of land in one capacity is presumed to
continue to possess it in the same capacity, might become unreal or “artificial” if it is
accepted without qualification. In the course of his judgement in Tillekaratne v. Bastian
(supra) at pages 20 to 21 he observed that-
“…….presumptions of the law of evidence should be regarded as guides to the
reasoning faculty, and not as fetters upon its exercise. Otherwise, by an
argumentative process based upon these presumptions, we may in any
particular case be brought to a conclusion which, though logically
unimpeachable, is contrary to common sense. It is the reverse of reasonable to
impute a character to a man‟s possession which his whole behaviour has long
repudiated. If it is found that one co-owner and his predecessors in interest
have been in possession of the whole property for a period as far back as
reasonable memory reaches; that he and they have done nothing to recognize
the claims of the other co-owners; that he and they have taken the whole
produce of the property for themselves; and that these co-owners have never
done anything to assert a claim to any share of the produce, it is artificial in the
highest degree to say that such a person and his predecessors in interest must
be presumed to be possessing all this time in the capacity of co-owners, and that
they can never be regarded as having possessed adversely, simply because no
definite positive act can be pointed to as originating or demonstrating the
adverse possession. Where it is found that presumptions of law lead to such an
artificial result, it will generally be found that the law itself provides a remedy
for such a situation by means of counter-presumptions. If such a thing were not
possible, law would in many cases become out of harmony with justice and
good sense.”
It is evident in this dictum that not only has this Court recognized the strong logical
underpinnings for a counter-presumption of “ouster”, but it has also laid down
guidelines under which such a presumption may be made. With further reference to a
line of cases beginning from the seminal judgement in Corea v. Appuhamy (supra), all of
which have been analyzed in the leading decision of this Court in Gunasekera v. Tissera
and Others [1994] 3 Sri LR 245, along with numerous references to be found in the
11

--- Page 12 ---
Roman-Dutch law authorities, the case for declaring the principle to be part of our law
was well established. Accordingly, in my view it is not only legitimate but necessary,
wherever long-continued exclusive possession by one co-owner is proved to have
existed, to delve into the question whether it is just and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case that the parties should be treated as though it had been
proved that that separate and exclusive possession had become adverse at some point
of time more than ten years before action brought.
It is in this light that one has to consider the submission made with great force by the
learned President‟s Counsel for the Appellant that the amicable partition said to have
been effected by Plan No. 1868 (3D1) by the heirs of Jeeris does not bind Haramanis or
his heirs as they were not aware of the said Plan, and additionally, as no Partition
Deed to which all co-owners were parties had been entered into to give effect to the
said Plan. In this context, learned President‟s Counsel invited the attention of court to
the following dictum of Gunasekara, J. (with Gratiaen, J. concurring) in Kobbekaduwa v.
Seneviratne 53 NLR 354, at page 359:
“…….the mere fact that one co-owner was in occupation of the entirety of a
house which is owned in common and purported to execute deeds in respect of
the entirety for a period of over ten years does not lead to the presumption of an
ouster in the absence of evidence to show, that the other co-owners had
knowledge of the transactions.”
In my opinion, while the question whether Haramanis and his heirs were aware of the
partition effected by Plan No. 1868 (3D1) is most material, an important consideration
that might affect the rights of the co-owners to the land is whether they acquiesced in
the division effected thereby for a period of more than 10 years after it was
implemented. As M.D.H. Fernando, J. in Gunasekera v. Tissera and Others [1994] 3 Sri LR
245 observed at page 258-
“If the division is not by all the co-owners, but is based on a plan prepared by
one co-owner without the knowledge of the other co-owners, his possession of
divided allotment is not adverse (Githohamy v. Karanagoda 56 NLR 250, 252), but
prescriptive title can be acquired by virtue of possession for such a period and
in such circumstances that the counter presumption applies”
It appears from the evidence led by the parties that Haramanis and Jeeris owned two
lands in common, namely, Porikehena, the corpus sought to be partitioned in the
action which led to this appeal, and Kirigaldeniya which was situated about half a
mile away from Porikehena. The version of the Responents‟ that there existed an
arrangement between Haramanis and Jeeris for the former to hold Kirigaldeniya and
the latter to possess Porikehena exclusively, if accepted, would explain the logic
behind the amicable partition alleged to have been effected in 1940 through Plan No.
1868 (3D1) whereby Porikehena along with Indiketiya and Mahakele Mukalana owned
by Jeeris were put together and divided amongst his heirs. It is clear from the
evidence led by both parties, that in 1940 when Porikehena was amalgamated with the
said two adjacent lands and divided into 5 distinct lots, a significant de facto change in
the manner of possession of the said land occurred. Following the division effected in
12

--- Page 13 ---
1940, wire fences had been erected and constructions were made on the said lands (as
depicted in Preliminary Plan No. 255) by the new holders, which was also admitted in
her testimony by the Appellant Sopinona, who stated that the two houses on the land
were occupied by Menchinona, the widow of Obias, and Cornelis, both grandsons of
Jeeris. Furthermore, the Appellant‟s mother-in-law, Sethuhamy, directly participated
in the division effected by Plan No. 1868 (3D1) in 1940 and conveyed, by Deed No.
1845 (3D3) executed on 23rd February 1950, the entirety of lot D of the said Plan No.
1868 (3D1) to Remanis, the deceased husband of the Appellant.
This court cannot also ignore the fact that the testimony of Carolis, who is the only
descendant of Haramanis to testify in this case, goes more to establish the case of the
Respondent. He stated in evidence that he lived in part of Kirigaldeniya, and that he
used to go to Porikehena and “Charley Mama”, who was one of Jeeris‟ sons and who
was in occupation of the land picked coconuts and breadfruit and gave them to him as
well as to other members of his family, acknowledging their rights as co-owners of
Porikehena. It is noted that Carolis stated in evidence that he went to Porikehena with
his grandmother: “uf.a wdÉps iuÕ uu fmd,a fo,a tfyu lvd f.k tkjd’” Although the point of
time at which Carolis collected such produce from Porikehena was not elicited by
Counsel for the Appellant, he has given a clue about the approximate date in his
answers to questions put to him in cross-examination:
“m% : fmdrslshdfyakg ;ud f.dia ;sfnso @
W : Tõ l=vd ld,fha .shd'
m% : l=vd ld,fha .shdg miqj ;ud wo jk ;=re tu bvug .sfha keye @
W : wjqre¥ 15 ;ru .shdg miqj .sfha ke;'”
It is relevant to note that at the time when Carolis testified in 1997 he was 72 years old,
which means that he was born in 1925, and he would have been 15 years old in 1940, the
year in which the amicable partition was effected by Plan No. 1868 (3D1). This gives
credence to the testimony of Cornelis, the sole witness for the Respondents at the
second trial, who testified that he was in possession of lot „E‟ of 3D1 but he did not
know Carolis and that he never exercised any rights of co-ownership over Porikehena.
“Tyq lshk msUqf¾ ol=Kq me;a;g f,dÜ' E wCIrh ork fldgfia whs;sh ;snqfka ug' 1940 isg ud nqla;s
js| ;shkjd' ud tys mosxpsjS bkakjd' fus kvqfjs lfrda,sia lshd flfkla meusKs,a,g idlaIs ¥kakd u;lhs'
lfrda,sia yd ;j lÜgshla w;aika lr Tmamqjla bosrsm;a l,d 3D1 lshd' lfrda,sia fus bvfus ljodj;a
fmd, a fldia nqla;s js|skak wdfjs keye' ta wh bvu wjg bkak lÜgsh fkfuhs' lsÜgqj keye' fus bvug
,Õ md; wh fkfuhs' ud whs;sjdislï lshk fldgi fjk ljqre;a nqla;s js| keye.”
It is possible to reconcile the apparent conflict in the testimony of Carolis and Cornelis
on the basis of the period of time during which rights of co-ownership were allegedly
exercised by the heirs of Haramanis including Carolis. The only conclusion that one
can reasonably arrive on the basis of the testimony of these witnesses is that none of
the heirs of Haramanis excercised any rights over Porikehena after the amalgamation
of that land with two other lands and the amicable partition effected by Plan No. 1868
(3D1) in 1940. In fact, the totality of the evidence point to the fact that none had
13

--- Page 14 ---
contested the separate possession established in 1940, and all respected the separation
effected in 1940 and entered into various subsequent transactions on that basis.
It is important to note that the only other witness for the Appellant was Sopinona
herself, who admitted in her testimony that she knew nothing herself about the
manner in which Jeeris and Haramanis exercised rights over Porikehena, nor did she
know personally about the amicable partition alleged to have been effected in 1940
through Plan No. 1868 (3D1). In fact, in the course of her testimony she admitted in
cross examination that after 1940, the parties to the said Plan had abided by the
division made thereunder. She answered a vital question as follows:
“m% : uu fhdackd lrkjd ;uka lshmq Tmamq j,ska fus bvfus whs;sjdislï 3D1) lshk msUqr
wkQj Th lshmq tl 1, 2, 3, 19 hk js;a;slrejka wrf.k ;sfhkjd lsh,d @
W : Tõ”
In the context of all this evidence, the conclusion is irresistible that land named
Porikehena which was referred in the scheduled to the plaint lost its separate identity
by reason of the amalgamation and partition effected by Plan No. 1868 (P1) in 1940. It
also transformed the character of the possession of Jeeris‟s heirs from one consistent
with co-ownership into what we may call “adverse” possession, which is essential for
the acquisition of prescriptive title. By 1950, such possession had crystallized into
ownership, which made it lawful for Sethuhamy to covey lot D of 3D1 to Remanis by
Deed No. 1845 (3D3) in 1950. Furthermore, it is important to note that the heirs of
Jeeris and Haramanis, who live not too far apart mainly in Porikehena and
Kirigaldeniya respectively, have refrained from asserting rights of co-ownership in
relation to the land held by the other, be it Porikehena or Kirigaldeniya, for a long time
until coaxed into action by Remanis, who in 1967, perhaps as a prelude to the
institution of this partition action, purported to buy from certain heirs of Haramanis
rights in Porikehena under Deed No. 1874 (P2) in October 1967. It has to be observed
that these heirs of Haramanis had themselves acquiesced in the division that had been
effected by Plan No. 1868 (P1) in 1940, and the said division had has remained
substantially the same changing hands from parent to child or vendor to vendee for a
period in excess of five decades at the point of time Sopinona, Carolis and Cornelis
gave evidence at the second trial in 1996 and 1997.
There are two major difficulties that arise in the stand taken by the Appellant in this
case. The first is that the claims of the Appellant for a share of Porikehena under a
purchase from the heirs of Haramanis effected by Deed No. 1874 dated 28th October
1967, and a further share of Porikehena under the birth right of her deceased husband
Remanis, as an heir of Jeeris, are mutually inconsistent. The contradiction arising from
the juxtaposition of these two claims is that in order to assert a “birth right” to the co-
ownership of Porikehena as an heir of Jeeris, she has to disassociate herself from Plan
No. 1868 (3D1), which she can ill afford to do as the ownership to the divided lot D of
the said Plan sought to be conveyed by Deed No. 1845 (3D3) is expressed in the deed
itself to be based on the said amicable partition effected in 1940 and prescription.
14

--- Page 15 ---
Secondly, the Appellant has an even more serious problem in regard to the total extent
of land that was taken to constitute the corpus sought to be partitioned in the
impugned judgment of the District Court. The Appellant has failed to explain to this
Court the basis on which Porikehena, which according to the plaint, and the evidence
led in the case, consisted of 3 roods and 11 perches as stated in Crown Grant No. 30258
(P1) increased in size and extent to 1 acre and 16.85 perches as shown in the
Preliminary Plan No. 255. The problem here is that there is no evidence of any paper
title that establishes co-ownership between Jeeris and Haramanis to the extent beyond
3 roods and 11.9 perches covered by the Crown Grant.
In my view, the Learned District Judge has considered the relations between Jeeris and
Haramanis as co-owners of the land they acquired through the Crown Grant of 1895
(P1) but her examination of the material relating to the amalgamation and amicable
partition effected in 1940 and subsequent dealings and transactions that took place
thereafter is lacking in depth. I am of the opinion that the evidence relating to the
enjoyment and use of the property by the heirs of Jeeris and Haramanis over a period
of at least 29 years leading up to the institution of the action in 1969 has not been
adequately examined and analyzed by the learned District Judge. Accordingly, I
answer question (a) on which special leave was granted in the negative, and hold that
the original court has not conducted a sufficiently investigate of title as required by
law.
Duty to Answer All Issues
It is now necessary to turn to the other two questions on which leave to appeal has
been granted by this Court. Question (b) arising on this appeal is whether all issues
need be answered by the District Judge when the answer to one issue alone sufficiently
determines the title of the parties to the land both on deeds and on prescription. It is
quite obvious that the duty of formulating issues is a responsibility of Court, and it is
the duty of court to answer all issues arising in the case. As Lord Devlin observed in
Bank of Ceylon v. Chelliah Pillai 64 NLR 25 (PC) at page 27, “…a case must be tried upon
the issues on which the right decision of the case appears to the court to depend and it
is well settled that the framing of such issues is not restricted by the pleadings….” In
Peiris v. Municipal Council, Galle 65 NLR 555 at page 556, Justice Tambiah remarked
that even where the plaintiff fails to raise a relevant issue, it is the duty of the judge to
raise the necessary issues for a just decision of the case. A fortiori, it follows that it is the
duty of the judge to answer at the end of the trial all the issues raised in the case.
The only exception to this cardinal principle is found in Section 147 of the Civil
Procedure Code wherein courts have been vested with a degree of discretion, where it
is of the opinion that a particular matter may be decided on the issues of law alone,
to try the issues of law first. In Mohinudeen and Another v. Lanka Bankuwa, York Street,
Colombo 01 [2001] 1 Srl LR, 290 at 299 Hector Yapa, J., cited with approval the following
dicta of Wijeyaratna, J. in Muthukrishna v. Gomes and Others [1994] 3 Sri LR at page 8:
“Judges of original courts should, as far as practicable, go through the entire
trial and answer all the issues unless they are certain that a pure question of law
without the leading of evidence (apart from formal evidence) can dispose of the
15

--- Page 16 ---
case.”(Emphasis added)
Making a further exception which will enable judges to avoid answering one or more
of issues of fact - such as issues (2) to (9) in this case - on the basis that the answer to one
of them will effectively disposes of all questions regarding which the parties are at
variance, might be somewhat imprudent as they could lead to disastrous results. In
fact, a careful examination of the issues formulated at the commencement of trial in
this case shows that there was no way in which the court could have avoided
answering all the issues raised at the commencement of the trial, and it is ironic that
the learned trial Judge had gone through the entire trial but had chosen not to answer
only issue (1). Indeed, if the learned Judge had focused even for a moment on the other
13 issues, she may have answered issue (1) differently.
The final question [question (c)] on which leave to appeal was granted in this case, is
whether, if the answer to a single issue is in effect a complete answer to all the issues
arising for determination in this action, whether it is necessary and incumbent on the
District Judge to give specific answers to the other issues. In this context, it is relevant
to note that in terms of Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code, a judgement should
contain a concise statement of the case, the points for determination, the decision
thereon, and the reasons for such decision. As was observed by court in Warnakula v.
Ramani Jayawardena [1990] 1 Sri L.R. 206 at 208, “bare answers to issues without
reasons are not in compliance with the requirements of Section 187 of the Civil
Procedure Code.” The Judge must evaluate and consider the totality of the evidence,
giving a short summary of the evidence of the parties and witnesses and stating the
reasons for his preference to accept the evidence of one party as opposed to that of the
other. The learned District Judge in this case has totally failed to discharge this duty by
failing to even attempt answering all of the very material ssues raised on behalf of the
Respondents, and has also failed to explain why, in her view, it was not necessary to
answer the other very important issues.
I have no difficulty in answering questions (b) and (c) in the negative and in favour of
the Respondents.
Conclusion
In the context of all these facts, I conclude that the learned District Judge has not only
failed to carefully examine questions relating to the identity of the corpus and the
adequacy of the lis pendens registered in the case, but also failed to properly investigate
title and in particular examine the issues relating to prescription with the intensity that
is expected in a partition case. Although for these reasons, I agree with the decision of
the Court of Appeal that the judgement of the District Court cannot stand and should
be set aside, I have also given anxious consideration to the question whether this case
should be sent back to the District Court for trial de novo.
I have carefully consider the evidence led at the second trial before the District Court,
and am of the opinion that on this evidence, it is clear that the possession of Jeeris‟s
heirs became adverse to Haramanis‟s heirs after an amicable partition was effected
through Plan No. 1868 (3D1) in 1940, and the persons to whom lots „A‟ and „E‟ of the
16

--- Page 17 ---
said Plan were allocated, and their successors in title, had possessed the said lots
exclusively up to the time of institution of action in 1969 by Remanis. It is manifest
that Porikehena, the land sought to be partitioned in this action and is described in the
schedule to the plaint, which coincides with the said lots „A‟ and „E‟, had lost the
character of co-owned property long before Remanis instituted the partition action
from which this appeal arises, more than 40 years ago. Accordingly, I am of the firm
opinion that the learned District Judge should have dismissed the action on the basis
that the corpus sought to be partitioned was not co-owned property.
I am also firmly of the opinion that, in any event, no useful purpose would be served
by sending this case back to the original court for trial de novo, as directed by the Court
of Appeal. This would constitute a third trial of this case more than four decades since
the matter was first brought before the District Court. This fact in itself raises serious
doubts regarding the possibility of securing witnesses with first hand knowledge of
the material facts, considering the time which has already elapsed and the further time
such fresh trial would take to make its way through the courts yet again. I note that
Sopinona, Carolis and Cornelis, the witnesses presented before the courts in the
second trial before the District Court of Homagama, would by now be more than 80
years old if they are living, and their descendants may not know about the facts of this
case even to the extent Sopinona, Carolis and Cornelis knew.
Considering therefore all the circumstances of this case, and in particular, the
uncertainty regarding the identity of the corpus, the failure to register lis pendens for the
larger land of 1 acre and 16.85 perches, the weakness in the case of the Appellant as
presented at the trial, the difficulty of finding witnesses who can testify at a fresh trial,
and the evidence led at the trial which show that the land sought to be partitioned was
not co-owned property, I am of the opinion that it is appropriate to make order setting
aside the judgement of the Court of Appeal dated 22nd November 2002 as well as the
judgement of the District Court dated 4th September 1998, and substitute therefore an
order that the action filed in the District Court by the substituted Appellant should
stand dismissed. I do not make any order for costs in all the circumstances of this case.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
F THE SUPREME COURT
17