--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka
No. 110, Norris Canal Road
Colombo 10
Plaintiff
SC (CHC) Appeal No. 38/2010 Vs.
Randenigala Distilleries Lanka
(Private) Limited
No. 162, Rajagiriya Road,
Rajagiriya
Defendant
HC (Civil) Case No. 34/2002(03)
AND NOW
In the matter of an appeal in terms of
section 5 and 6 of the High Court of
Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No.10
of 1996 read with Chapter LVIII of the
Civil Procedure Code
Randenigala Distilleries Lanka
(Private) Limited
No. 162, Rajagiriya Road,
Rajagiriya
Defendant-Appellant
Vs
Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka
No. 110, Norris Canal Road
Colombo 10
Plaintiff-Respondent
BEFORE: Mohan Pieris, PC, CJ
Chandra Ekanayake, J
Rohini Marasinghe, J

--- Page 2 ---
COUNSEL: D.P. Kumarasinghe PC with Mahendra Kumarasinghe and
Jayerani Kumarasinghe for the Defendant-Appellant
S.A Parthalingam PC with V.K Choksy for the Plaintiff-
Respondent.
Written Submissions tendered by the Defendant-Appellant on 04.11.2014
Written Submissions tendered by the Plaintiff-Respondent on 29.10.2014
ARGUED ON : 22.09.2014
DECIDED ON: 19.12.2014
MOHAN PIERIS, PC, CJ
This is an appeal from the judgment of the High Court of the Western
Province (exercising civil jurisdiction) holden in Colombo (Commercial High
Court) dated 31 August 2010. It raises the central question of whether the
labels and/or bottles used by the Defendant-Appellant (hereinafter referred
to as the “Appellant”) are visually and/or phonetically of sufficient similarity
to mislead the consuming public and thereby establish a case of passing off
in favour of the Plaintiff-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the
“Respondent”), and/or whether the Appellant is using the labels and/or
bottles in a manner that violates Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual
Property Act No. 52 of 1979, insofar as it constitutes an act or acts of unfair
competition. I do not intend to narrate the facts of this case, as these have
been set out clearly in the judgment of the Commercial High Court. Instead,
I will shortly turn to the relevant issues that need to be addressed by this
court, which has been adverted to above.
At the very outset, this Court feels it pertinent to make two preliminary
observations. First, on the question of whether the current action is
indirectly a second attempt by the Respondent to obtain exclusivity to the
term ‘extra special arrack’. The concept of res judicata is a well-established
principle of law designed to protect a party from having to entertain
repetitive legal attacks on the grounds of an issue that has already been
2

--- Page 3 ---
decided in full and final settlement by a court of law. Attempts of this kind
under the smokescreen of being a fresh issue are frowned upon and cannot
be entertained by courts, for such actions seek to discredit and abuse the
finality of the legal process. Bearing this in mind, it is the view of this court,
that the Respondent was entitled to pursue a separate action as they did,
because the subject matter (the bottle shape and label), albeit on the same
basis for the earlier action (SC (CHC) Appeal 38/1999), changed in
substance, viz. the bottle and label shape of both parties is different to those
in the earlier case. In light of this, this court feels that the foundation on
which the Respondent instituted this claim is fundamentally different to the
earlier case, since the subject matter in respect of which relief was being
sought has since changed. Further, while the Respondent attempted to
focus on establishing exclusivity in the term ‘extra special arrack’ during
examination in chief, it was clearly not the focus of this action, and this
court observes that the Respondent is free to proceed down any tangent he
so wishes in the course of leading evidence since it will only be in vain, as it
is clear to this court that the issue to be determined by this court does not
relate to the term ‘extra special arrack’. It is therefore the view of this court
that even if the Respondent was successful in its action, this would relate
only to the bottle and/or labels used and not to the use of term ‘extra
special arrack’, as this court is possessed of the fact that this is a pre-
determined issue, in respect of which the Respondent is not entitled to gain
any circumvented relief.
The second observation is in relation to the trademark infringement alleged
by the Respondent. This Court wishes to state with utmost clarity that this
matter is res judicata, and therefore will not be reopened by this Court.
Let me move now to the substantive questions of law. Turning first to the
question of passing off, this Court is well possessed of the general principle
applicable to cases of passing off, which was captured by the observations of
Lord Kingsdown in The Leather Cloth Co v The American Cloth Co (1865) 11
H.L Cas. 538, which are as follows:
3

--- Page 4 ---
“The fundamental rule is that one man has no right to put off his goods
for sale as the goods of a rival trader, and he cannot therefore (in the
language of Lord Lansdale in the case of Perry v Truefit (1843) 6 Beav.
66) be allowed to use names, marks, letters, or other indicia, by
which he may induce purchasers to believe that the goods which he is
selling are the manufacture of another person.”
Accordingly, the important question in this instance is whether the
Respondent, has on the evidence produced before court established to the
required standard of proof that the labels/bottles and/or get up of the
coconut blended arrack sold by the Appellant has resulted in a
misappropriation of the goodwill held by the Respondent in the sale of this
class of goods with respect to the general consuming public. The pre-
requisites for an action of passing off, as alluded to by the Appellant in his
written submissions, were laid down by Lord Oliver in the House of Lords
Case of Rekitt & Colman v Borden (1990) 1 WLR 491 (Jif Lemon case) as
consisting of the following: (1) The Respondent’s mark has goodwill; (2) The
Appellant has made a misrepresentation that is likely to deceive the public;
and (3) The said misrepresentation has caused damage.
In light of this, this Court is of the view that it is for the Respondent, being
the party prosecuting the claim, to show that they have developed a
reputation and understanding with the public sufficient to establish goodwill
in the distinguishing mark in respect of which the protection of the law is
sought. The importance in proving this goes to the root of passing off, viz.
that the action is predicated on the misappropriation of goodwill developed
amongst the public as a result of a signature mark, and not the
misappropriation of the mark itself. This notion was captured by Lewison J
in the case of L’Oreal v Bellure [2006] EWHC 2355 Ch., where he stated that:
“The law of passing off is not designed to protect a trader against
others selling the same goods or copied goods.”
4

--- Page 5 ---
A consequence of this is that it is only possible to protect features that are
distinctive of goods originating from one trader, and accordingly, features
that are not directly suggestive of origin cannot be protected by an action in
passing off. Mention must be made of the words of Jacob J in Hodgkinson
Corby Limited and Another v Wards Mobility Services Limited [1995] F.S. 169
at paragraphs 174-175, who expands on this very same point:
“I turn to consider the law and begin by identifying what is not the law.
There is no tort of copying. There is no tort of taking a man's market or
customers. Neither the market nor the customers are the Respondent's
to own. There is no tort of making use of another's goodwill as such.
There is no tort of competition. I say this because at times the
Respondent-Respondents seemed close to relying on such torts… At the
heart of passing off lies deception or its likelihood, deception of the
ultimate consumer in particular…Never has the tort shown even a slight
tendency to stray beyond cases of deception. Were it to do so it would
enter the field of honest competition, declared unlawful for some reason
other than deceptiveness. Why there should be any such reason I
cannot imagine. It would serve only to stifle competition.”
It is the view of this Court, therefore, in echoing the words of Jacob J, that it
must be proven by the Respondent, that by deceiving the public as to the
source of the goods they are purchasing, it is the goodwill generated by the
labels and/or bottles and/or other distinguishing features of the
Respondent’s get-up that is being misappropriated by the Appellant. In
order to do so, it is fundamental for the Respondent to provide in evidence
proof of the goodwill they are seeking to protect, through the calling of
witness or any other legal means in order to adduce evidence to this effect.
It is therefore the view of this court, that on the application of the law, it is
insufficient to show that the Appellant has copied the goods and/or get up
of the Respondent, for that is clearly not what constitutes an action of
passing off. With reference to the evidence, the Respondent’s witness, when
5

--- Page 6 ---
being cross-examined by Counsel for the Appellant stated, “after they copied
our label and our name they have got very big profits”. This appears to be the
leak in the Respondent’s sinking attempt to allege passing off, since the law
is clear; it is the goodwill of Respondent’s mark that may be protected under
the law, and not acts of copying.
Notwithstanding the above, the remaining constituents of an action of
passing off will also be examined. The second pre-requisite enunciated by
Lord Oliver in the Rekitt case is that there must have been a
misrepresentation by the Appellant as to the source of the goods. In this
regard, Walker J identified three points for consideration in the case of
Limited biscuit (UK) Ltd v Asda Stores (1997). They are as follows: (1) the
subjective intentions of the Appellant; (2) the quality of the suggestion
(conveyed by the get-up of the Appellants goods) of association or connection
with the claimant’s goods; and (3) the degree to which it is necessary for the
claimant’s name to be known to the general public as the owner of the
business whose goodwill and reputation are threatened by any
misrepresentation.
The subjective intentions of the Appellant in this case appear to be innocent.
That being said, whether or not it was is purely a peripheral matter, since
ultimately the intentions behind the act are irrelevant, although they may
still be taken into consideration. Turning to the likelihood of confusion, or
deception, as both words can seemingly be used interchangeably in this
context; since the Appellant’s mark is not identical to that of the
Respondent, what must be put into focus is whether it is too similar; in
other words, whether the similarities between the get-up of the Appellant’s
goods and that of the Respondent are close enough to confuse or deceive a
customer as to the source of the goods they are about to purchase. When
deciding whether there is such a likelihood of confusion, Aldous L.J at
paragraph 31 of Thomson Holidays v Norwegian Cruise Line [2002] IP&T 299
rightly suggests that the court is to adopt the attitude of the average
reasonably well informed consumer of the products, who I also add, is
6

--- Page 7 ---
reasonably observant and circumspect. Therefore the question posed before
me is the extent of an impact the Appellant’s mark is likely to have on
objective consumers of the aforementioned characteristics, given the
expectations they already have and the amount of attention they will most
likely pay. If the impact is that the customer will be deceived as to the
source of the goods, then this would amount to a misrepresentation. In this
respect, it is fundamental in a claim for passing off, for a simple comparison
to be made by placing side by side the mark of the Respondent and that of
the Appellant, in order to establish whether there is a likelihood of
confusion. The Learned High Court Judge having recited the law failed to
give her conscious mind to the physical features in ascertaining whether the
get-up of the two products were similar or dissimilar so as to be satisfied
that a case of passing off can be made out, other than a cursory reference to
what a witness narrated. It is clear to me, that there is no such likelihood of
confusion, and further, in applying the objective test adhered to above, the
impact on a reasonably well informed consumer of coconut blended arrack
will be both low, and unlikely. Looking at the physical characteristics of the
labels and bottles of the two parties through a lens of objectivity, and
placing ourselves in the shoes of reasonably well informed consumer, it is
clear to this Court that looking at the overall characteristics of the two
products, they are sufficiently distinct from each other to satisfy ourselves
that the likelihood of confusion will be low. I reiterate briefly the distinctions
that exist between the products to the naked eye.
i. The labels of the two products slant in opposite directions.
ii. The Appellant’s label is one piece covering two thirds of the bottle,
whereas the Respondent’s label is in two parts with a discernible
gap with a discernible shape in the middle.
iii. In the Appellant’s label, there is a wide green strip played obliquely
at the bottom whereas with the Respondents the strip at the bottom
is yellow and much wider
iv. The Appellant’s label has the phrase “Gone free extra strong” written
in red against a yellow background, whereas the Respondent’s label
does not.
7

--- Page 8 ---
v. The Appellant’s label has “අති විශෙෂ” written in large bold lettering at
the top of the label whereas the Respondent’s label does not.
The next question is the extent to which it is necessary for the Respondent’s
name to be known to the general public in the context of this claim. Seeing
that the product in question is not intrinsically unique, it is logical to infer
that one method by which the public is capable of distinguishing between
the Respondent’s product and those of competitors is with reference to the
name of the supplier. If this were the primary means by which the public
would differentiate the Respondent’s goods, then the scenario would be
much simpler; in that the appearance of the goods would be less significant.
However, this court is possessed of the fact that the public may, more often
than not, distinguish the Respondent’s goods by reason of the external
appearance of the Respondent’s goods. This is buttressed by the oral
submissions made by Counsel for the Respondent to the effect that in a
number of the wine stores in which both the Respondent’s and Appellant’s
goods are sold, they are displayed on a shelf away and behind a counter
from which the customers are served. The salesman then passes the
selected purchase to the customer who then proceeds to complete the
purchase. It is observed that there is an absence of evidence to establish the
likelihood of the customer being given the Appellant’s brand under the
pretense of it being the Respondent’s or that of a customer complaining of
being deceived to fall within this limb of passing off.
Turning to the final pre-requisite in an action of passing off, it is for the
Respondent to show that the misrepresentation by the Appellant caused
damage to his identifiable goodwill, or that damage to the Respondent’s
goodwill is reasonably foreseeable, in which case the necessary safeguards
need to be taken in a preventative form to shelter against the
misappropriation of the Appellant’s goodwill. The burden in showing this is
on the Respondent, and the onus is therefore on them to adduce evidence to
such an effect. This Court cannot ignore the fact that there appears to be a
paucity of evidence in respect of this.
8

--- Page 9 ---
This court is of the view that there are several ways in which the
Respondent may have sought to prove the damage sustained in an action of
this nature, which will be briefly expanded on below for the sake of
completeness. In this instance, both parties operate in a common field of
activity, namely the supply of distilled coconut blended arrack. One type of
evidence of damage would be proof of the diversion of sales. This, in the
Court’s view, may be illustrated by way of evidence to show a drop in sales
of the Respondent’s goods and a corresponding increase in the sales of the
Appellant’s goods. This would have gone to show that the Appellant’s
misrepresentation induced the public to buy the Appellant’s products
instead of purchasing the Respondent’s as they usually would. It appears
from the evidence before Court that the Respondent has traversed only part
of the distance in establishing damages in this manner. It would appear that
the Respondent was relying purely on the increase in the volume of sales of
the Appellant’s products as evidence of damage. This is observed in the oral
evidence given by the Respondent’s sole witness during cross-examination;
stating that the claim is hinged on the fact that the Appellant has
experienced higher sales. I am of the view that this evidence simpliciter is
insufficient without more, since an increase in sales of the Appellant’s
product can be attributed to a whole range of other factors. There needs to
be a linkage established by cogent evidence between the increase in sales of
the Appellant’s goods and the decrease in sales of the Respondent’s goods in
order to show with reasonable certainty that there has been a drop in the
volume of sales of the Respondent’s product which is attributable to the
Appellant having passed off his goods as those of the Respondent. It would
have been, therefore, an indispensable adjunct, to place the sales records of
the Respondent for the consideration of the Court. It is the view of this
Court that the failure to place such evidence must necessarily place the
Respondent at a disadvantage. The public interest consequences in allowing
a claim to be based on an assessment of damages structured only on a bare
reference to an increase in the sales of competitors would, in my view, be
inadequate.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Another head of damage under which the Respondent may have sought to
rely on is the possibility of their goodwill being eroded by reason of the
Appellant infringing their exclusivity of the association of the name, mark or
get-up with the Respondent. Therefore, evidence to show an erosion of the
distinctiveness of the Respondent’s mark would also have been helpful.
Learned President’s Counsel for the Respondent, in his oral submissions,
strenuously sought to canvas this point in the context of the evidence in the
case, which did not lend him the support he would have liked to have had. I
reiterate that this Court is of the view that the get up of the Respondent’s
goods and those of the Appellant are distinct enough on a simple
comparison, which makes it clear that an average consumer will not be
confused. Alternatively, as was held in the case of Lego System v Lego M.
Lemelstrich [1983] F.S.R. 155, a properly conducted opinion survey could
have been used by the Respondent in this case as evidence that the public is
or is likely to get confused between the goods of the Respondent or those of
the Appellant due to the alleged similarities in their get-up.
It is therefore clear to this Court that notwithstanding the several avenues
that the Respondent could have placed before the Court to establish damage
in an action of passing off, the qualitative nature of the evidence that was
placed before the Court was inadequate in an action of this nature. The
Respondent has couched their claim on the basis of there being a
misappropriation, and not a misappropriation by misrepresentation, which
is an integral ingredient of passing off. Further, the Respondent’s reliance
purely on the increase in sales of the Appellant’s products, in the eyes of
this court, is wholly insufficient. It therefore appears to this Court that the
Respondent has failed to adduce adequate evidence to satisfy the third pre-
requisite identified by Lord Oliver in the deliberation of the judgment in the
Rekitt case, and therefore the case of the Respondent fails to satisfy the
third criterion adumbrated by Lord Oliver for the claim of passing off to
succeed. It must be observed that the underlying rationale in the
aforementioned cases were not considered by the Learned High Court Judge
1 0

--- Page 11 ---
when deciding this case in the Commercial High Court. For the above
reasons, this Court holds that the Respondents have not made out a case
for passing off against the Appellants to a sufficient standard on a balance
of probability.
Turning now to the question of unfair competition, while it is true that the
ambit of the protection afforded under the mantle of unfair competition by
Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual Property Act No. 52 of 1979 is wider
than that of passing off, both actions stem from common principles in
intellectual property law. They are bred for the same purpose; to promote
healthy market growth and to allow for the limited curtailment of
undesirable practices that go to undermine and inhibit such growth.
Further it must be noted that unfair competition does not confer exclusive
rights, it is designed only to protect parties against the unfair behaviour of
competitors in the market.
The Respondent has submitted that the labels and/or bottles used by the
Appellant constitute a breach of Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual
Property Act No. 52 of 1979, which states, “any act of competition contrary to
honest practices in industrial or commercial matters shall constitute an act of
unfair competition.” For the purposes of appreciating the full import of this
section it must be broken down into two core components. The first
component is that there must be an act of competition; whilst the second
component is that such an act is contrary to the honest practices in
industrial or commercial matters. In an attempt to shed light on the
meaning of “honest practices in industrial or commercial matters”, reference
is made to the observations of the Supreme Court in Sumeet Research and
Holdings Ltd v Elite Radio and Engineering Co. Ltd [1997] 2 SLR 393 at 402:
“what is meant by ‘contrary to honest practices in industrial or
commercial matters’? If this includes only conduct contrary to
obligations imposed by statute law (criminal or civil) or common law
(especially the law of delict), section 142 would seem to be superfluous -
because anyway such conduct is prohibited by law. It seems arguable,
1 1

--- Page 12 ---
therefore, that section 142 mandates higher standards of conduct -
some norms of business ethics - and does not merely restate existing
legal obligations. If so, what those standards of conduct are would be a
matter for determination by the trial Judge. It is also arguable that the
prohibition against unfair competition in section 142(2) must be
interpreted not only in the context of protecting intellectual property
rights, but also of safeguarding the rights and interests of consumers -
by enabling consumers to know what exactly they are getting, without,
for instance, being deceived, confused or misled as to the manufacturer,
the source, the origin, and the quality of goods or services.”
It appears to this Court, therefore, that there are certain overlapping
elements between the operation of Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual
Property Act No. 52 of 1979 on the one hand, and the tort of passing off on
the other. In this respect, the Court in the case of Hexagon Pvt Ltd. v
Australian Broadcasting Commission (1975) 7 ALR 233 13 expressed the
following view:
“... unfair competition' is an extension of the doctrine of passing off, or,
possibly, is a new and independent cause of action. It consists of
misappropriation of what equitably belongs to a competitor ... in all
these cases, English and American, the Court has found an element of
fraud or inequitable conduct on the part of the defendant. The very
description of the tort "unfair competition" leads one to a conclusion that
there must be something underhand or sharp in the conduct of the
defendant.”
The above quotation touches on the possibility of unfair competition being
regarded as its own cause of action. The question before this court today is
whether, in the absence of a successful claim for relief, the provisions of
Section 142 have a residual capacity; viz. whether it can be invoked in
situations where the action of passing off fails. This court recognises that in
theory, Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual Property Act No. 52 of 1979 is
capable of being its own cause of action, for otherwise, its existence would
1 2

--- Page 13 ---
be unavailing. However, it is clear from the definition and the non-
exhaustive list of examples of acts of unfair competition provided in the said
Section, that the scope of unfair competition superimposes itself on to other
causes of actions, such as passing off, in which case it would seem equally
futile to allow relief to be granted under the guise of unfair competition,
when such relief would not be available under the pre-existing legal
principles governing the law of passing off.
Keeping the above in mind, allusion is made to the first in the list of acts of
unfair competition prescribed in Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual
Property Act No. 52 of 1979:
“All acts of such a nature as to create confusion by any means
whatsoever with the establishment, the goods, services or the industrial
or commercial actives of a competitor” [emphasis added]
The inescapably wide ambit of this statement distinguishes itself from the
tort of passing off, in that it indicates that the confusion created, need not
be in relation to the source of the goods, but can be confusion as to the
goods themselves. The difficulty for this Court is that the breadth of this
provision needs to be balanced against the commercial interests of healthy
and fair competition. The wide parameters in which this definition is
couched is not designed for the purpose of this Section being used and
manipulated for the commercial benefit of excluding competition and
securing monopolistic interests. Therefore, the scope of acts that cause
‘confusion’ must be carefully considered. It must be noted that copying
simpliciter does not prevent freedom of competition. Only when there is
undue advantage gained as a result of the act of copying, will a party be
entitled to the relief on the premise of unfair competition. It is not designed
to protect a parties’ market position, nor is it designed to regulate market
affairs. It is simply a means of ensuring that there is fairness in the market
place. It is therefore the view of this Court upon the reflection of the
comparison made above between the physical appearance of the goods of the
Appellant and the Respondent, that the Respondents have failed to establish
1 3

--- Page 14 ---
that the Appellant engaged in unfair trade practices for the purposes of
Section 142 of the Code of Intellectual Property Act No. 52 of 1979.
The issues that materialised in this case touch on important chords in the
development of Intellectual Property Law in Sri Lanka. This Court feels it
pertinent, therefore, to reiterate the sentiments expressed by Professor
Cornish in his book, Intellectual Property: Patents, Copyright, Trade Marks
and Allied Rights (4th ed., 1999) at p. 15, in the following passage:
“One of the most fundamental assumptions about a competitive
economy has been that once a product enters a market, exactly that
type of imitation needs to be present, at least as a potentiality. For no
other mechanism will so efficiently secure the welfare of consumers as
the prospect of such competition. The intellectual property rights in
ideas (patents, copyrights, etc.) exist by way of limited exception in
order to encourage the mental effort and productive investment which
will procure new products and services. To add to their scope by a right
against misappropriation or unfair imitation is to place an amorphous
impediment in the way of competition by imitation and that is an
inherently controversial step”. [Emphasis added]
Having looked at the entirety of the evidence in this case, and in light of the
reasons described above, this Court is of the view that the Respondent does
not fall within this limited exception, as it has failed to establish a case
against the Appellant under either of the causes of actions identified above,
primarily due to the key common denominator in the Respondent’s action,
viz. the unlikelihood of confusion between the goods of the Appellant and
Respondent companies in the minds of the consuming public. Further, this
Court is strongly of the view that the Respondent is not entitled to use the
law as a shield against competitors. In reference to Professor Cornish’s
statement above, competition of this kind is the best way in which to further
the interests of the consuming public. A Court must therefore be slow to
interfere with such market competition, for to do otherwise could well result
in prejudice to the public interest.
1 4

--- Page 15 ---
For the reasons set out above, this appeal is allowed. I therefore make order
setting aside the Judgment of the Commercial High Court dated 31.08.2010,
and dismiss the Plaintiff’s action with costs in a sum of Rs. 50,000/-.
CHIEF JUSTICE
EKANAYAKE, J
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
MARASINGHE, J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
1 5