--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SC CHC No. 25/2001 In the matter of an application made
In accordance with Chapter LVIII of the Civil
Procedure Code read together with
Sections 5 and 6 of the High Court of the
Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 10 of
1996.
Kulanthan Palaniyandy,
Carrying on business under the name style
and firm of Paramount exporters, No. 151,
Old Moor Street, Colombo 12.
Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant
HC (Civil) 73/99 (1)
-Vs-
G. Premjee Limited,
7th Floor, Cathay House, No. 8/30, North
Sathorn Road, Bangkok 10501, Thailand.
Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent
BEFORE : SHIRANEE TILAKAWARDANE, J.
K. SRIPAVAN, J.
RATNAYAKE, J.
1

--- Page 2 ---
COUNSEL : Kushan D’ Alwis with chamila Wickramanayake
instructed by Sinnadurai Sundaralingam and
Balendra for Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant.
Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent is absent and
unrepresented.
ARGUED &
DECIDED ON : 02.07.2010
……….
SHIRANEE TILAKAWARDANE, J.
During their submissions, both Counsel conceded that the only question of law
which is urged before this Court is whether the service of summons on the
Appellant by way of substituted service was duly served under Section 60 (2) of
the Civil Procedure Code and whether the order of the learned High Court Judge
refusing to vacate ex-parte judgment and decree was erroneous.
The Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) had
preferred this appeal to set aside the order of the Commercial High Court (Civil) of
the Western Province dated 05.10.2001, whereby the
application to set aside the ex parte decree, consequent to the default in the
appearance of the Appellant , was refused .
2

--- Page 3 ---
Plaint in this case was filed on 19/07/99, and summons was issued thereafter and
sent for service through one Hemachandra , a fiscal officer of the Court. This fiscal
officer’s report dated 15/9/99 (marked as X1) was filed with the Petition of
Appeal dated 26th November, 2001. In his report the fiscal officer had noted that
summons could not be served in person as the Appellant was avoiding the service
of summons. Service of summon was re-issued and reserved on three separate
occasions namely, 16/8/99, 18/8/99 and 21/8/99.
The fiscal officer in giving evidence before the Court at the inquiry stated that on
all three occasions the business premises had been open, and though the office
was working that he had been informed that the Appellant was not in and
therefore summons could not be served
The fiscal officer Hemachandra further stated that it was his considered opinion
that the Appellant was deliberately seeking to evade the receipt of summons.
Counsel for the Appellant sought to assail the evidence led at that inquiry, but
which side the entrance was or other such matters of fact were admittedly not
raised at the inquiry, and had this been done during the cross examination, the
3

--- Page 4 ---
fiscal officer would have had the opportunity to explain and clarify these matters
of fact.
There is a presumption under Section 114 of the Evidence Ordinance that all acts
performed as official acts of the Court are regularly performed and the burden to
rebut this presumption in law is solely on the Appellant.
Due to the opinion of the Court that summons had been deliberately refused and
service of the summons evaded by the Appellant order for ex parte trial was
made on 03/12/99 and subsequently ex parte decree was admittedly served on
the Appellant and report was filed marked as X2, by the same fiscal officer who
confirmed this through his affidavit dated 25/10/99.
It is noted by this Court that this ex parte decree was served on the Appellant
whilst he was at the same residential address referred to in X1, the fiscal report of
Hemachandra.
The Appellant had failed to give adequate evidence to rebut the presumption and
/or to satisfy the Court that he had a pertinent and genuine reason why summons
4

--- Page 5 ---
could not be served on him originally. There is also the evidence of the fiscal
officer to disclose that reasonable due diligence had been exercised to serve the
original summons by substituted service which was sought to be served on
11/10/99. According to the fiscal officer’s evidence, this too had not been
successful due to the deliberate evasive tactics of the Appellant.
Therefore, we see no reason to interfere with the order dated 05/10/2001 made
by the Judge of the Civil Appellate Court. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.
No costs.
Registrar is directed to send the original case record and the judgment of this
Court to the original Court for the expeditious conclusion of the case.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
K. SRIPAVAN, J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
RATNAYAKE, J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
5