--- Page 1 ---
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
ARPICO FINANCE COMPANY PLC.
146, Havelock Road,
S.C (C.H.C) Appeal No. 41/2014 Colombo-05.
SC Case No. SC/HC/LA/55/2013
CHC Case No. HC (Civil) 10/2012 (IP)
Plaintiff
Vs.
RICHARD PIERIS ARPICO FINANCE LIMITED.
310, High Level Road,
Nawinna,
Maharagama.
Defendant
AND NOW
In the matter of an application for Leave to
Appeal under and in terms of Section 5 (2)
of the High Court of the Provinces (Special
Provisions) Act No. 10 of 1996 read together
with Chapter LVIII of the Civil Procedure
Code.
1

--- Page 2 ---
RICHARD PIERIS ARPICO FINANCE LIMITED
310, High Level Road,
Nawinna ,
Maharagama.
Defendant-Petitioner.
ARPICO FINANCE COMPANY PLC.
146, Havelock Road,
Colombo-05.
Plaintiff-Respondent
BEFORE: Dep PC. J
Aluwihare PC. J and
Sarath de Abrew J.
Counsel- Dr. Harsha Cabral P.C, with Buddika Illanganthilaka and Nishan
Premathirathne, instructed by M/s. Julius & Creasy for the Defendant
Petitioner.
A.R.Surendran P.C, with Shivan Kang-Iswaran instructed by
M/s. Neelakandan & Neelakandan for the plaintiff- Respondent
2

--- Page 3 ---
Argued on- 25th June 2014, 26th June 2014 and 4th July 2014
Written Submissions – 21st July 2014
Decided on - 29th – September 2014
Aluwihare P.C J
The Plaintiff -Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)
instituted action before the High Court of Colombo exercising civil
jurisdiction (herein after referred to as the High Court) alleging an
infringement of rights relating to the trade name of the Respondent and
sought inter alia the following relief against the defendant-Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as the Petitioner)
a. A declaration that the use of word “Arpico Finance” or any other
trade name which in any way resembles Respondent’s trade name
i.e“Arpico Finance” and “Arpico Finance Company PLC” or any of their
products and /or services and/ or in advertisements relating to their
business activities by the Petitioner would constitute acts of Unfair
Competition and unlawful acts within the meaning of Sections 160 and
144 respectively of the Intellectual Property Act No. 36 of 2003
(hereinafter referred to as the Intellectual Property Act) and passing off;
b. A permanent injunction restraining the Petitioner and /or its
servants or agents from using the words “Arpico Finance” and/or any
other name so nearly resembling the Respondent’s trade name “Arpico
Finance “ and “Arpico Finance Company PLC” in relation to and in
respects of its products and/or services and/ or advertisements
concerning their business activities so as to constitute acts of Unfair
Competition or un-lawful acts in relation to a protected trade name;
3

--- Page 4 ---
c. An Interim Injunction until the hearing and final determination of
this action, restraining the Petitioner by itself , its servants or agents in
any manner whatsoever or howsoever from using the word” Arpico
Finance” and/or any other trade name as part of the trade name of the
Petitioner or any other name so nearly resembling the Respondent’s trade
name “Arpico Finance “ and “Arpico Finance Company PLC” in relation
to and in respect of its products and/or services and/ or advertisements
concerning their business activities so as to constitutes acts of Unfair
Competition or unlawful acts in relation to a Protected Trade Name:
When the inquiry relating the application for interim injunction referred
to in the paragraph “c” above was taken up before the High Court, both
parties had agreed that the matter could be disposed of by written
submissions and documents filed by the parties. Consequently the
learned High Court Judge made order on 30th March 2013 granting an
interim injunction as prayed for by the Respondent, restraining the
Petitioner, by itself , it’s servants or agents in any manner whatsoever or
howsoever from using the word “Arpico Finance” and/ or any other trade
name as part of the trade name of the Petitioner or any other name so
nearly resembling the Respondent’s trade name “Arpico Finance” and
“Arpico Finance Company PLC” in relation to and in respect of its
products and /or services and /or advertisements concerning their
business activities so as to constitute acts of unfair competition or
unlawful acts in relation to a protected trade name, until the final
determination of the action filed before the High Court.
Being aggrieved by the said order of the learned High Court Judge, the
Petitioner filed the instant application seeking leave to appeal from this
court. When this matter was supported for leave, the court granted leave
on the following questions:
a. Did the learned High Court Judge misdirect himself in the
application of Section 122 of the Intellectual Property Act No. 36 of 2003
read with 144 (3) thereof:
b. Did the Learned High Court Judge misdirect himself in the
application of the principles of Intellectual Property Law relating to
confusion /misleading the public;
4

--- Page 5 ---
c. Did the Learned High Court Judge misdirect himself in failing to give
consideration to the particular customers who use the services of the
Petitioner and the Respondent.
d. Did the Learned High Court Judge misdirect himself in failing to
consider the goodwill and reputation attached to the trademark/trade
name/house mark ARPICO of the Richard Pieris Group.
e. Did the Learned High Court Judge misdirected himself in failing to
consider the use of ‘ Richard Pieris ‘ in the name of the Petitioner would
clearly distinguish the source of the services of the Petitioner from the
Respondent;
f. Did the Learned High Court Judge err in law and misdirected himself
failing to consider the irreparable loss and damage that would be caused
to the Petitioner by granting the interim injunction;
The Respondent’s main grievances against the Petitioner were-
(a) Infringement of the Respondent’s trade name in terms of Section
144 of the Intellectual Property Act No. 36 of 2003.
And
(b) Unfair competition in terms of Section 160 of the same Act.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Section 144 of the Intellectual Property Act Reads thus:
I44 (1) - Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law providing for
the registration of a trade name, such name shall be protected,
even prior to or without registration, against any unlawful act
committed by a third party.
(2) -Any subsequent use of a trade name by a third party, whether as
a trade name or as a trade mark, service mark, collective mark
or certification mark or any such use of similar trade name ,
trade mark, service mark or collective mark of certification
mark likely to mislead the public shall be deemed to be
unlawful.(Emphasis added)
Section 160 (2) (a) of the Intellectual Property Act states any act or
practice carried out or engaged in, in the course of industrial or
commercial activities, that causes or is likely to cause confusion with
respect to another’s enterprise or its activities, in particular the products
or services offered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act of Unfair
Competition.
Paragraph (b) of the said section (i.e. Section160) which
elaborates on aspects of confusion states that “confusion” may, in
particular, be caused with respect to a trade name.
In considering these aspects, the main thrust of the Respondent’s case
was that, if the Petitioner were to use the words “Arpico Finance” in their
trade name, the use of such words would be in violation of the
Respondent’s rights in relation to Sections 144 and 160 of the Intellectual
Property Act.
The Respondents’ contention was that ownership of Arpico Finance
changed hands in 1967 and the present owners of Richard Peiris &
Company had no involvement whatsoever in its business and that the
Arpico Finance Company carried on business activities as a wholly
6

--- Page 7 ---
separate and distinct business from Richard Peiris & Company. It was
further contended that since 1951, the Respondent enjoyed the use of its
trade names “Arpico Finance” & “Arpico Finance Company PLC” without
any interruption and became well known in Sri Lanka in the field of
financial services, having a customer deposit base of Rupees 2 billion.
The facts of the case are as follows:-
It is common ground that the Respondent (Arpico Finance) was
incorporated in 1951 as an associate of Richard Pieris & Company Ltd,
engaged primarily providing hire-purchase facilities for the products
marketed by Richard Pieris Company Limited.
In the year 1967, Alliance Finance Company Ltd, purchased the entirety
of the shareholding of the Respondent Company, from Richard Pieris &
Company. Since its incorporation in 1951, the Respondent had been
engaged in the business of a finance company and had enjoyed the
uninterrupted use of its trade name “Arpico Finance & Arpico Finance
Company PLC”.
The Respondents had contended before the High Court, as well as before
this court, that they had substantial goodwill and reputation among the
public in relation to the said trade names “Arpico Finance” and Arpico
Finance Company PLC”.
Having come to know, that a company by the name of “Arpico Financial
Services” had been incorporated, Respondent had taken steps to intimate
to the Registrar General of Companies, that the incorporation of the
company, under the name “Arpico Finance Services Limited” is contrary
to the provisions of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. As a consequence
of the said objection taken by the Respondent with the Registrar General
of Companies, the name of the company was changed to “Richard Peiris
7

--- Page 8 ---
Arpico Finanace Ltd”from Arpico Finanace Services Ltd. The Respondent
had lodged an objection again with the Registrar of Companies on the
basis that, even the change of name from “Arpico Finanace Services” to
“Richard Peiris Arpico Finanace Ltd” was manifestly similar to that of the
Respondent company.The Respondent did not succeed in their objection
to have the name changed with the Registrar of Companies and that led to
the institution of action before the Commercial High court by the
Respondent.
It was also the contention of the Respondent that the use by the Petitioner
of the word “Arpico Finance” as part of its trade name is an act contrary
to honest practices, unfair competition and likely to cause confusion in
regard to commercial activities of the Respondent. In addition,
Respondent further contended, by the use of the words “Arpico Finance”,
as part of its trade name, which is indistinguishable from the trade name
of the Respondent, the Petitioner has thereby blurred the distinction
between the two trade names. Thus, the Respondent claims, is likely to
cause confusion in the mind of the public. The Respondent also contends
that the Petitioner has done so, with the intent, not to distinguish its
products and services, but for the purpose of passing off which in turn is
likely to mislead the public as to the products or services offered by the
Petitioner.
It is in this backdrop that the learned High Court Judge issued the interim
injunction, which is now being challenged in these proceedings.
At this juncture what needs to be considered is whether the learned High
court judge had correctly applied the criteria laid down by law to issue
an interim injunction. Although both parties forwarded strenuous
arguments supported by written submissions, at this stage, this court is
only required to decide as to whether the learned High Court Judge was
8

--- Page 9 ---
correct in forming the view that the Respondent had met the criteria laid
down in terms of Section 54 of the Judicature Act No 2 of 1978 as
amended, by placing sufficient material before the court for the issuance
of the interim injunction prayed for, by the Respondent.
For convenience Section 54 of the Judicature Act is reproduced below-:
(1) Where in any action instituted in a High Court, District Court or a
Small Claims Court, it appears-
(a) from the plaint that the plaintiff demands and is
entitled to a judgment against the defendant, restraining the
commission or continuance of an act or nuisance, the
commission or continuance of which would produce injury
to the plaintiff; or
(b) that the defendant during the tendency of the action
is doing or committing or procuring or suffering to be done
or committed, or threatens or is about to do or procure or
suffer to be done or committed, an act or nuisance in
violation of the plaintiffs rights in respect of the subject-
matter of the action and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual, or
(c) that the defendant during the pendency of the action
threatens or is about to remove or dispose of his property
with intent to defraud the plaintiff, the Court may, on its
appearing by the affidavit of the plaintiff or any other person
that sufficient grounds exist therefor, grant an injunction
restraining any such defendant from-
9

--- Page 10 ---
( i ) c ommitting or continuing any such act or nuisance;
(ii) doing or committing any such act or nuisance;
(iii) removing or disposing of such property.
In terms of S ection 54, if it appears to court that sufficient grounds exist
for the court to form the view that one of the grounds enumerated in
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1) of section 54 prevails, the
plaintiff is entitled to succeed. However, in a series of cases, the courts
have held, that the court needs to consider three elements before relief
sought under section 54 (1) of the Judicature Act can be granted. They
are, whether the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case, does the
balance of convenience lie with the applicant and whether equitable
considerations favour the grant of an interim injunction.
The element of “prima facie case” was defined in the case of Indrani v.
The Municipal Board Imphal A.I.R 1958 Manupuri 27 to mean no more
than that “there is a serious question to be tried” and there is a possibility
of success if the allegations of fact made out by the plaintiff are proved,
and Justice Dalton in the case of Jinadasa v. Weerasinghe 31 N.L.R 33,
placed a stricter burden on the plaintiff, when he held that the
requirement for an interim injunction is that “the court must be satisfied
that there is a serious question to be tried at the hearing and on the facts
before it, there is a probability that plaintiff is entitled to relief”.
As Row points out (Law of injunctions 8th Edition page 302) it would be
sufficient for the plaintiff to show that he has a fair question to raise as to
the existence of his right and that till the question is ripe for trial, a case
is made out for the preservation of the property in status quo. Row goes
on to say balance of inconvenience means the comparative mischief or
inconvenience to the parties.
10

--- Page 11 ---
It was held in the case of Bhauroo Singh v. Mst Dulari And Anor 1992 1
Western Law cases 636 (Rajastan), that “ In deciding a matter for the
grant of a temporary injunction, the court is not required to go into
evidence with a critical attitude for its close scrutiny. It is only required to
see that all three necessary ingredients for the grant of a temporary
injunction exist and in whose favour.”(Emphasis added)
The position taken up by the Petitioner is that, Richard Peiris & Company
Ltd. has been carrying on business for 81 years and it is a diversified
group of companies comprising of more than 50 companies in various
sectors and that the word “ARPICO” is the brand name /trade name
/name mark of Richard Peiris group of companies . Petitioner has also
contended that several companies of the Richard Peiris Group use the
word ARPICO in their trade name and further the Richard Peiris Group
has amassed substantial goodwill with long use of the word “Arpico”.
The petitioner also has taken up the position that the learned High Court
Judge had failed to consider that the Respondent has not established and
does not have an exclusive right to use the word “ARPICO” and the use of
the word “Richard Peiris” as part of the name clearly distinguishes the
Petitioner Company from the Respondent Company. In the same breath
the Petitioners contended that the word “FINANCE” is only descriptive of
the services provided by both the Petitioner and the Respondent, and the
Respondent has no exclusivity over the word FINANCE either. Under these
circumstances the Petitioner argued that the Respondent cannot object
the Petitioner from using the words“ARPICO FINANCE” as a part of their
trade name.
However, it must be said that the Respondent did not argue the case on
the footing that the Respondent has exclusivity over the words “ARPICO
FINANCE” but on the basis that the use of the word “ARPICO FINANCE”
11

--- Page 12 ---
in the trade name of the Petitioner is a case of “passing off” and is a
violation of the Petitioners rights, both under sections 144 and 160 of the
Intellectual Property Act.
Petitioner relied on the decisions of Ceylon Insurance Corporation Vs.
United Ceylon Insurance Company (48 NLR page 454) where it was held
that there is no exclusive right to use the word “Insurance” and in
addition it was also held that of the word “United” sufficiently
distinguishes the Defendant Company.
I note, all the words that make up the names of the two entities in the
case referred to above are common words which have an accepted
meaning in common parlance. As opposed to this, the word “ARPICO” is
an invented name. There would be a greater likelihood of confusion in the
minds of the consumer, when a another entity which has a similar
invented name offer similar services, as to its source.
Lord Halsbury, in the case of North Chesire and Manchester Brewery
Company Ltd v. Manchester Brewery Co. Ltd. 1899 AC 83, held that
“when I see that in the name of the Appellant company there is literally
and positively the same name on that of the rival company as I will call it,
and that it is only prevented from being identical in name by having
another name associated with it, I should think myself that the inevitable
result would be that anyone who saw the two names together would
arrive at the conclusion without any doubt at all that the two companies ,
both with well known names, both in the particular neighborhood with
which we are dealing, had been amalgamated , because it is so common a
thing for companies to amalgamate that when I found two well-known
names associated together as that of a new company being brought out, I
should have at once jumped to the conclusion, and so would everybody
else, that the two companies were really amalgamating together and
12

--- Page 13 ---
forming a new company. I have not the smallest doubt that everybody
who knew the two names at all would come to that conclusion”.
I have also considered the judgement in the case of Parle Products Pvt Ltd
v. Parle Agro Pvt Ltd.2009 F.S.R 18 The parties to the suit happened to be
companies incorporated by two groups of a family. Having started as a
partnership, down the line the partnership split, but both parties
continued to use the word “Parle” as part of their corporate name as
well as the trademark.. When the party producing beverages expanded
and started manufacturing and selling confectionery under the name
Parle, plaintiff sought an interim injunction which was refused as there
was no agreement between the parties, by which either of the parties is
restrained from carrying on business under the family name “Parle”.
However, the court made an order directing the defendant to have the
message “…. having no relationship whatsoever with Parle products
Private Limited” on their their products.
I also wish to refer to the case of Adrema Vs. Adrema-Werke 1958 RPC
323 in which Danckwerts J held that the plaintiff is entitled to an
injunction, and I find the circumstances of the said case somewhat similar
to the case before this court. A German company, which manufactured
“Adrema” addressing machines, had formed an English company Adrema
Ltd before the outbreak of the World War II. This English subsidiary was
allowed by the parent company to acquire the entire United Kingdom
goodwill in the mark “Adrema”. After the war broke out, the two
companies ceased to be connected. At the end of the war the German
Company (Adrema –Works GmbH) sought to use its name in trading its
machines in the United Kingdom. The English Company sued the German
Company for passing off and the court granted an injunction preventing
the German company, the use of the name “Adrema”.
13

--- Page 14 ---
It is not disputed that the Richard Peiris group of companies has operated
a number of subsidiaries that used the word Arpico and it is contended
two such subsidiaries namely “Arpico Ataraxia Asset Management (Pvt)
Ltd. Arpico Insurance Ltd, provided financial services. Nevertheless, there
is no evidence before this court to come to a finding that
products/services provided by those subsidiaries are the same as the
services / products provided by the Respondent. However the Petitioner
had admitted that both the Petitioner and the Respondents are finance
companies providing financial services.
It was argued on behalf of the Petitioner that customers who are
obtaining financial services from financial institutions make informed
choices and is unlikely to be either misled or confused. Petitioner relies on
the case of HFC Bank PLC. V. Midland Bank PLC (200 RFS 176) and the
First National Bank in Sioux Falls V. First National Bank South Dakota
SPC. INC 2008 DSD 9.
Likelihood of consumers of being misled or confused undoubtedly may be
negated to an extent due to consumer sophistication. However, whether
consumer sophistication in this country is comparable to consumer
sophistication in the United Kingdom in relation to financial services and
products is a question of fact.
Petitioner quite correctly points out that the burden is on the Respondent
to establish that the members of the public obtaining services from the
Petitioner company do so due to the misrepresentation of the Petitioner
company and in the belief that they are in fact services offered by the
Respondent Company. This again is a question of fact which needs to be
established through evidence.
14

--- Page 15 ---
As pointed out by Lord Halsbury in the case of Reddaway v. Banham
1896 A.C 199 “The principle of law may be very plainly stated, that
nobody has any right to represent his goods as the goods of somebody
else. How far the use of particular words, signs or pictures does or does
not come up to the propersition enunciated in each particular case must
always be a question of evidence….”
As referred to earlier, this court is only concerned as to whether the
Learned High Court Judge misdirected himself in wrongly applying the
law relating to issuing of an interim injunction.
Lord Jauncey quoting Lord Langdde, in the Jif- Lemon case (Reckitt
&Coleman Products Ltd v. Borden 1990 R.P.C 341) observed:-
“ It is not essential that the defendant should misrepresent his goods as
those of the plaintiff. It is sufficient that he misrepresent his goods in such
a way that it is reasonably foreseeable consequence of the
misrepresentation that the plaintiff’s business or goodwill will be
damaged”.
Given the facts and the circumstances of this case the court cannot fault
the Learned High Court Judge in concluding that when one considers the
invented names of the Petitioner and Respondent companies, that there
appears to be a similarity in the names and would mislead and cause
confusion in the mind of the public.
It is not disputed that the Petitioner company is of recent vintage and as
at 30th April 2013 did not enjoy a deposits base of substantial value. In
this respect, I find that the balance of convenience is also in favour of
the Respondent.
15

--- Page 16 ---
I am of the view that the Learned High Court Judge had not erred in
issuing an interim injunction and make order upholding the order of the
learned High Court Judge dated 30th July 2013 in granting an interim
injunction. I make a further order vacating the order made by this court
in suspending the order of the Learned High Court on 2nd October 2013,
staying the operation of the order of the learned High Court judge dated
30th April 2013.
I wish to reiterate that what was considered in this order is only as to
whether the Respondent has satisfied the court of the criteria with regard
to the grant of an injunction and no more.
Considering the importance of this case I direct the Learned High Court
Judge to give utmost priority to this case and to make every endeavor to
have this matter concluded without undue delay.
I wish to place on record my appreciation of the assistance given to this
court by the learned counsel, Dr. Harsha Cabral P.C and A.R. Surendran
P.C in deciding the issues in this not altogether straight forward case.
I make no order with regard to cost.
Judge of the supreme Court
Priyasath Dep PC J
I agree
Judge of the supreme Court
Sarath de Abrew
I agree
16

--- Page 17 ---
Judge of the supreme Court
17