--- Page 1 ---
1
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
S.C. (CHC) Appeal No.08/2010
HC/Civil/ 263/2007/MR
Sanicoch Group of Companies,
No. 24, Bristol Street,
London FCIY 452
England.
Appearing by its Attorney
Denham Oswald Dawson
157, Dutugemunu Street,
Kohuwala.
PLAINTIFF
Vs.
Kala Traders (Pvt.) Limited,
No. 151, Dam Street,
Colombo 12.
DEFENDANT
In the matter of an application made under
and in terms of Section 86(2) of the Civil
Procedure Code.

--- Page 2 ---
2
Kala Traders (Pvt.) Limited,
No. 151, Dam Street,
Colombo 12.
DEFENDANT-PETITIONER
Vs.
Sanicoch Group of Companies
No. 24, Bristol Street,
London FCIY 452
England.
Appearing by its Attorney
Denham Oswald Dawson
157, Dutugemunu Street,
Kohuwala.
PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT
AND NOW
Kala Traders (Pvt.) Limited,
No. 151, Dam Street,
Colombo 12.
DEFENDANT-PETITIONER-APPELLANT
Vs.
Sanicoch Group of Companies
No. 24, Bristol Street,
London FCIY 452
England.

--- Page 3 ---
3
Appearing by its Attorney
Denham Oswald Dawson
157, Dutugemunu Street,
Kohuwala.
PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT
BEFORE: Chandra Ekanayake J.
Upaly Abeyrathne J.
Anil Gooneratne J.
COUNSEL: Ikram Mohamed P.C. with Padma Bandara and
N. Udalagama for the Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant
S.C.B. Walgampaya P.C., with Upendra Walgampaya
for the Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent
ARGUED ON: 18.05.2015
DECIDED ON: 02.10.2015
GOONERATNE J.
This is an appeal to the Supreme Court from the order of the High
Court of Western Province in exercising its Civil Jurisdiction (Commercial High

--- Page 4 ---
4
Court). Order was delivered by the said High Court on 20.10.2010, refusing to
vacate an ex-parte judgment entered in default as per Section 86(2) of the Civil
Procedure Code. In this regard an Acceleration Application bearing No. 01/110
had also been filed, and the Journal Entry of 08.10.2010 in S.C. Acceleration No.
01/2010 may also be noted as parties agreed to accelerate the appeal on the
following basis.
(i) All actions pending between the said parties would be stayed until the
determination of Case No. SC (CHC) Appeal No. 08/2010.
(ii) The outcome of the decision in case SC (CHC) Appeal No. 08/2010 would be
taken by all parties as full and final settlement of all disputes pertaining to
this case between the parties.
(iii) As these matters are agreed upon the Defendant-Appellant-Respondent
agrees to have this appeal referred for acceleration and application for
acceleration is agreed upon.
Parties also agree that if the aforesaid agreement is not conceded
then the acceleration would be refused.
The Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent, Sanicoch Group of Companies
of U.K. filed action through Power of Attorney holder as described in the caption
to the petition, against the Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant namely Kala Traders

--- Page 5 ---
5
(Pvt.) Ltd. to recover a sum of Rs. 147,180.000/- in the Commercial High Court of
Colombo. On the summons returnable date Defendant-Petitioner Company was
not represented, and as such being absent and unrepresented the case had been
fixed for ex-parte trial, against the Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant. Plaintiff-
Respondent-Respondent obtained an ex-parte judgment after ex-parte trial and
this appeal arises from the order of the learned High Court Judge dated
20.01.2010, refusing to set aside the ex-parte judgment, wherein the Defendant-
Petitioner-Appellant sought to purge the default before the Commercial High
Court. I would wish to refer to the following undisputed facts, prior to examining
the above order of 20.01.2010, delivered by the learned High Court Judge of the
Commercial High Court.
The record bears the fact that summons was served on the
Defendant Company on 23.09.2007, and the summons returnable date was
29.10.2007. Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant does not dispute the service of
summons on the Defendant Company. Subsequent to having obtained an ex-
parte judgment, decree was served on the Defendant Company on 23.09.2008.
An application to vacate the ex-parte decree was made by the Defendant-
Petitioner-Appellant on 07.10.2008. Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent filed
objection to same on 15.01.2009. Inquiry into this application as per Section

--- Page 6 ---
6
86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code was held in the High Court on 30.03.2009, and
order delivered as stated above on 20.01.2010. At the inquiry to purge default an
employee of the Defendant Company one Chandrasiri Perera gave evidence.
There was no appearance on behalf of the Defendant Company on the summons
returnable date and parties do not dispute that the Managing Director of the
Defendant Company was kidnapped and missing since 20.07.2006, and suspected
of having been murdered for which the police had conducted investigations. The
other Directress was the said Managing Director’s daughter Ms. Vanaja
Sriskandarajah, and the Defendant Company’s position was that she was
continuously resident in Australia, and was in Australia at all relevant times to
pursue her studies. The evidence led at the inquiry also reveal that the wife of the
Managing Director Yogarani Sriskandarajah (not a Director) was too compelled to
leave Sri Lanka and had been residing in Australia as there had been threats to her
life as well, and even during the short period she was present in the island she
was staying in hotels in Sri Lanka, being reluctant to disclose her proper
whereabouts.
The only witness who gave evidence at the above inquiry was the
above named Chandrasiri Perera who was attached to the Company since 1996. It
was his evidence that he held the post of an Executive Officer in the company

--- Page 7 ---
7
and that there were only two Directors, in the said company. One was the
Managing Director who went missing since the year 2006 and the other was the
daughter of the Managing Director Vanaja Sriskandarajah who had never
participated in the affairs of the company. The evidence of this witness was that
the daughter was in Australia from that time onwards and resident in that country
for purposes of her studies. (The period referred to above according to evidence
was the 1996 period-folio 587) A question posed may be to get further
clarification, the witness states from the time he joined the company (1996)
Vanaja Sriskandarajah would have been in Sri Lanka for two years only, but
thereafter left Sri Lanka.
It was also the evidence of the above witness that since the
Managing Director, Sriskandarajah went missing, the company was in a state of
collapse and no proper person to take decisions on behalf of the company. It is
stated that other subsidiary companies also faced the same fate. There is some
reference in evidence to another company called ‘Franklin Development
Company’ where the son of the Managing Director of the Defendant Company
was involved but they were separate companies from each other, but had one
office for all the other companies. It is further stated that the wife of the above
Sriskandarajah was in the island around the year 2008 but she had been staying in

--- Page 8 ---
8
a hotel but never occupied the residence at Gregory’s Road, Colombo 7. She was
in Sri Lanka for about 2 ½ months but never visited the Defendant Company, nor
was she willing to make her presence felt in Sri Lanka due to death threats. The
evidence on this point was to impress court that the wife’s movements within the
country was very much restricted even during the short period of 2 ½ months
mentioned above.
I find an important item of evidence that had transpired from the
only witness, as to who gave instructions to take steps to file an application to
purge the default. Evidence on this point, as testified by witness was that the wife
Yogarani Sriskandarajah had been given a Power of Attorney by her daughter
Vanaja Sriskandarajah but no document produced, and one Rohana Kumara had
been appointed as a Director to take necessary steps in the process of purging
default. However it is in evidence that subsequently a new board had been
appointed to conduct the affairs of the company.
The above witness testified that in 2008, Yogarani Sriskandarajah the
wife of the former Managing Director was present in the Island and he had told
her about the case in question. He also states in evidence, having consulted may
be the lawyers, he realized that nothing could be done to cure the defect until the
receipt of the ‘Decree’ and he admits that the Decree was served and was signed

--- Page 9 ---
9
and accepted by him on behalf of the company. The position of the Defendant
Company as testified by the witness in gist was that:
(1) During the period summons were served on the company, no proper steps
could have been taken to represent the company in court, since there were
no Directors available to take responsibility, and initiate action.
(2) According to form No. 48 issued by the Registrar of Companies which had
been marked and produced in court as ‘P1’ details of the two Directors are
provided and same being the only two persons mentioned above.
(3) Subsequent to serving the Decree, a new Board of Directors appointed, and
as such steps were taken to purge default.
(4) Defendant Company could not take proper legal steps on the summons
returnable date due to reasons beyond its control and not due to any
negligence on the part of the organization.
At this point let me also consider the position of the opposing party
who placed material before the learned High Court Judge who more or less relied
upon the version of the Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent in refusing to vacate the
ex-parte order. The following points emerged in cross-examination of the above
witness.
(a) As at today witness is serving as a Manager of the Company.
(b) No instructions taken from Vanaja Sriskandarajah after the year 2006
and no notice given to her, regarding the affairs of the company.

--- Page 10 ---
10
(c ) After Nadarajah Sriskandarajah went missing from June 2006 his wife
was consulted and he did what she told him.
(d) No connection with Company Secretary, but aware that the Secretary
is in Bambalapitiya.
(e) Witness speaks of document P1 and the proxy signed during that
time where Yogarani Sriskandarajah (wife) had signed based on a
Power of Attorney obtained by the daughter Vanaja Sriskandarajah.
Proxy was signed by Company Secretary as well.
(h) There is a connection between the case relevant to Proxy VI and the
case pertaining to the inquiry regarding purge default.
(j) During the year 2006-2007 witness was doing office work. Suggestion
made to witness that he was not aware of the whereabouts of the
Directors and Company Secretary was a lie was denied by witness,
and the suggestion that when the Defendant Company need to
recover money steps taken to initiate proceeding in court and when
others sought to recover money from the Company the Defendant-
Petitioner-Appellant avoids such situation was also denied by
witness.
(k) Yogarani Sriskandarajah had death threats and as such she had not
disclosed her movements and stayed away from Sri Lanka. Even
during the period she was in Sri Lanka she spoke from hotels, where
she was staying and reluctant to disclose permanent or temporary
residence due to threats.

--- Page 11 ---
11
The learned High Court Judge in his order dated 20.10.2010, states
the fact of summons being duly served is not in issue. However he emphasizes the
fact that in these circumstances internal mismanagement of the company and
problematic situation within, would not be a ground to be considered to excuse
default, for the reason that persons responsible had not acted with due diligence
(Bg j.lsj hq;= whg mek ke.=Kq ;;ajhla ;=, ksis wjOdkh fhduq lr lghq;=
fkdlsrSu ;=,ska mek k.skakla nejsks). The above position of the learned trial
Judge no doubt gives the impression that he has not totally rejected the position
of mismanagement urged on behalf of the company by the Defendant-Petitioner-
Appellant, but observes that such a situation which cannot condone default arose
as a result of those responsible acting without due diligence.
The order of the learned High Court Judge also stress the fact that
although the fact of mismanagement and the breakdown of the affairs of the
company was suggested, cross-examination of the only witness reveal that as
regards other cases during the relevant period the Defendant-Petitioner-
Appellant Company had taken necessary steps, to defend or prosecute and
appear in courts, in those cases. Further the learned High Court Judge doubts
whether the evidence led to demonstrate that a person named as ‘Rohana

--- Page 12 ---
12
Kumara’ was appointed as Director to take necessary steps to purge default, was
in fact done with due authority. No Power of Attorney or other written authority
was produced in court, to prove above.
In this regard the High Court Judge also observes that difficulties
undergone or faced by the other Directress resident in Australia and her mother
who had death threats, are factual matters known to those two persons only,
who had chosen not to give evidence in court. Order of the learned High Court
Judge refer to the fact that evidence by the witness on the question of difficulty of
getting the Directors and Secretary of the Company involved in the case in hand
to defend the action is doubtful. The Judge in this regard draw a comparison and
states that if the other cases were defended or prosecuted at the relevant period,
there is no reason to excuse the default of the case in hand and it is nothing but
negligence or willful negligence on the part of the Defendant-Petitioner
Appellant.
Chapter XII of the Civil Procedure Code deals with consequences and
cure (when permissible) of default in pleading or appearing. The relevant sections
of the code dealing with the case in hand would be Section 86(2) of the Code. It
reads thus:

--- Page 13 ---
13
Where, within fourteen days of the service of the decree entered against
him for default, the defendant with notice to the plaintiff makes application
to and thereafter satisfies court, that he had reasonable grounds for such
default, the court shall set aside the judgment and decree and permit the
defendant to proceed with his defence as from the stage of default upon
such terms as to costs or otherwise as to the court shall appear proper.
The above section enables the Defendant in an action to excuse his
default and obtain an order to set aside the judgment entered in default in the
manner provided by the above section. The above section requires the Defendant
to satisfy court that the Defendant had reasonable grounds for such default. To
state very briefly is that, the Defendant party need to satisfy court which would
mean, to meet the expectations or desires, to be accepted by as adequate in the
circumstances. What should or would be adequate needs to be only reasonable
grounds. It is well known according to case law that inquires on application to set
aside an ex-parte decree is not regulated by any specific provision of the Civil
Procedure Code but such inquiries must be conducted consistent with rules of
Natural Justice and the requirement of fairness. Section 839 of the Code applies.
De Fonseka Vs. Dharmawardena (1994) 3 SLR 49. What is decided by court is

--- Page 14 ---
14
essentially a question of fact on the part of the Defendant whether there are
reasonable grounds. Wimalawathie Vs. Thotamuna 1998 (2) SLR Vol. 1 at pg. 1.
At this point of my judgment I would also prefer to look at the other
provisions relating to default which concerns the Plaintiff in an action. Such
provisions are contained in Section 87(3) of the Code, the only difference in the
two sections are that Section 86(2) enables to purge default only on service of
decree and that too within 14 days. But Section 87(3) requires the application to
restore be made within a reasonable time. (There is no rigid deadline for the
Plaintiff to apply but for the Defendant to purge default a time limit is specified).
However both these sections has set the standard of proof required by law to be
only to satisfy court of reasonable grounds for default. Legislature has taken much
care to see the ends of justice and to introduce the word ‘reasonable’, to excuse
default.
No doubt it is a liberal approach which enables the defaulter to cure
or rectify a defect on his part and get into the correct track and face an
interpartes trial. However it should be permitted subject to terms in order to
compensate the opposing party for whatever inconvenience caused to such party.
The entirety of the order of the learned High Court Judge pertains to
the factual position and an analysis of evidence and his views of the material that

--- Page 15 ---
15
transpired at the inquiry. There is absolutely no reference made in the said order
to the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Code viz. Section 86(2) of the
Code. It is incumbent upon the trial Judge to have analysed in a case of this
nature, the evidence led in the case along with the provisions of the statute i.e
the important ingredients of Section 86(2), being satisfied or not of the required
reasonable grounds, as per the relevant section. A mere statement in the order
expressing the view (last para of order) that the above facts would not be
sufficient to set aside the ex-parte judgment would not suffice especially where
the intention of the legislature had been made very clear in the relevant section
of the Code.
Section 86(2) of the Code contemplates of a liberal approach
emphasising the aspect of reasonableness opposed to rigid standard of proof.
That being the yardstick the learned Judge’s order should indicate with certainty
that reasonable grounds for default had not been elicited at the inquiry. Nor does
the order demonstrate by reference to evidence and provisions contained in
Section 86(2), that there was a willful abuse of the process or willful default which
would enable court to reject the Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant’s case. This is
essential in the background of undisputed facts referred to in this judgment at the
very outset. I cannot lose sight of the fact that undisputedly the two Directors of

--- Page 16 ---
16
the company who are responsible and bound to take decisions on behalf of the
company, were not available since one went missing and the other not resident in
Sri Lanka which resulted in mismanagement of the affairs of the company at the
relevant time. In the context of the case in hand with reference to evidence led at
the inquiry, death threats to the family which resulted in the Managing Director
going missing and suspected of being murdered would have had a serious adverse
impact on the rest of the family and their affairs with its business establishment,
at the relevant period.
Ordinarily in the absence of a plausible explanation it is possible to
conclude that reasonable grounds had not been elicited as regards the case in
hand. If that be so mismanagement of the company may not be a reasonable
ground, and this court would not have had a difficulty in affirming the views of
the learned High Court Judge. However the facts placed before the High Court is
an extreme and an unavoidable situation where a court of law cannot ignore
having regard being had to the common course of events, human conduct and
public and private business in their relation to the facts of the case in hand. In a
family business though it was a limited liability company the main person or the
live-wire of the business went missing. It is no ordinary situation but an extreme,
extraordinary situation for the family, that resulted in mismanagement of the

--- Page 17 ---
17
affairs of the company, which arose or had a serious impact on the other
members of the family as observed above. Much emphasis need to be placed in
interpreting Section 86(2) of the Code. Court must use the yardstick of a
subjective test rather than having resorted to an objective test in determining
what is reasonable.
There is another important matter to be considered. This is an action
against a juristic person. Viz. Kala Traders (Pvt.) Ltd. The role of the legal
personality also need to be considered and it could never have been dismissed by
a stroke of a pen, expressing that mismanagement of the company is no ground
of reasonableness. It is axiomatic that Directors are responsible for the
management of a company’s business and if for instance one scrutinizes Section
184 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, one would observe that it grants the
Board with all powers necessary for that purpose. These powers would include
the right of representation for and on behalf of the company in litigations
involving the company. In addition the articles of association of the company
would also regulate the management of the company. As such a company
operates through its contractual organ and the most important organ is an
effective Board of Directors.

--- Page 18 ---
18
As far back as 1843 the seminal case of Foss Vs. Harbottle (1843) 2
Hare 461 held that only the company through its organs – the Board or general
meeting can initiate proceedings for a wrong done to the company. In the same
way it is the Board that can act for the company in litigation initiated against it. As
such it becomes a question of fact for the learned District Judge or the High Court
Judge as the case may be, in default proceedings to ascertain whether there was
an Effective Board in the first place. It would be highly irregular to dismiss an
application on the basis, that mismanagement of a company would not constitute
a reasonable ground, for default.
There had been much emphasis placed by a Plaintiff-Respondent-
Respondent that Defendant had appeared in other actions filed by the Defendant
or filed against the Defendant marked V1 and V2, and as such the default in the
case in hand is nothing but their negligence. In any event V1 relates to an action
as far back as year 2006. However I observe that such a finding by the learned
High Court Judge is an erroneous conclusion and a misconstruction of the relevant
circumstances when a subjective test and a liberal approach is clearly envisaged
within the four corners of the relevant Sections, (86(2)). The question of default
has to be assessed by a case by case basis. In all the above matters expressed and
stated in this judgment, I am strongly of the view that the circumstances which

--- Page 19 ---
19
prevailed at the relevant period although summons had been served on an
employee of the company, it would not have been possible to enter an
appearance on behalf of the company on the summons returnable day in the
absence of an active/effective Board of Directors. Therefore in all the above facts
and circumstances I set aside the order of the learned High Court Judge dated
20.01.2010, and vacate the ex-parte judgment, and permit the Defendant to file
answer and defend the said action. However considering whatever inconvenience
caused to the Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent, we direct the Defendant-
Petitioner-Appellant to make payment in a sum of Rs.100,000/- as costs to the
Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent prior to filing answer in the relevant High Court.
Registrar of this court is directed to send a copy of this judgment to the Registrar
of the relevant High Court of Colombo.
Appeal allowed.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
Chandra Ekanayake J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT
Upaly Abeyrathne J.
I agree.
JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT

--- Page 20 ---
20