IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 

OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for writs in 

the  nature  of  Writ  of  Certiorari  and 

Mandamus  under  and  in  terms  of  Article 

140 of the Constitution of the Democratic 

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.  

                                                               Mohamed Ismail Wahabdeen, 

                                                               39A/1, O.P.P. Road, 

                                                               Kalmunai - 12  

                                                                                                            Petitioner             

CA /Writ /468  /2021                             Vs. 

1.  His Lordship Jayantha Jayasuriya,  

Hon Chief Justice and Chairman, 

Judicial Services Commission, 

Colombo 12.  

2.  His Lordship Buwaneka Aluvihare, 

Member, Judicial Services Commission, 

Colombo 12. 

3.  His Lordship Sisira de Abrew (Retired), 

Ex-Member, 

Judicial Service Commission, 

Colombo 12. 

4.  His Lordship L.T.B. Dehideniya, 

Member, 

Judicial Services Commission, 

Colombo 12. 

5.  The Secretary,  

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
Judicial Service Commission,  

Colombo 12. 

6.  Hon. Gihan Kulatunge, 

(Inquiry Officer), 

High Court Judge, 

Colombo. 

                                                                                                               Respondents 

Before:   B. Sasi Mahendran, J.         

               M.C.B.S. Morais, J.            

Counsels:     Faisz Musthapha, PC with N.M. Shaheid, Keerthi Thillekeratne,     

                     Bishran  Iqbal and Zaid Ali for the Petitioner  

                    Nerin Pulle, A.S.G. with Tashya Gajanayake, S.C. for the 5th   

                    Respondent  

 Argued On:  21.03.2025 

Written            04.04.2025 (by the Petitioner) 

Submissions:    03.04.2025 (by the 5th Respondent)   

On                     

Order On:      28.05.2025 

B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

ORDER 

This order pertains to the preliminary objection raised by the 5th Respondent on 

the maintainability of this application.  

The  Petitioner  filed  this  application  by  petition  dated  11.10.2021,  seeking inter 

alia a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the Judicial Service Commission 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
marked  as  P17  and  a  writ  of  mandamus  compelling  the  Judicial  Service 

Commission to reinstate the Petitioner as a Judicial Officer.  

The facts of this case are as follows: 

The Judicial  Service  Commission  has  received  a  complaint  dated  23.11.2017  by 

the Conservator General of Forests, referring to an alleged judicial misconduct by 

the Petitioner with regard to several interim orders issued by the Petitioner, who 

was serving as the Magistrate of the Magistrates’ Court of Pottuvil in respect of 

17  persons  accused  of  having  violated  Section  6  of  the  Forest  Ordinance  as 

amended by Act No. 65 of 2009. Subsequent to the said complaint, the Commission 

conducted  a  disciplinary  inquiry,  at  the  end  of  which  the  Petitioner  was  found 

guilty of 18 charges of misconduct. Thereafter, by letter dated 27.07.2020 marked 

P17,  such  decision  was  communicated  by  the  5th  Respondent  to  the  Petitioner, 

informing that the Petitioner is dismissed from judicial service as a punishment 

for the said misconduct. 

The Petitioner has preferred the present application against the said decision.  

By order dated 08.08.2022, His Lordship Justice Sobitha Rajakaruna, along with 

His Lordship Justice Ganepola, issued notice only to the 5th Respondent. 

For easy reference, an excerpt of the said order is reproduced below: 

“In  these  circumstances,  I  am  inclined  to  issue  formal  notice  of  this  case 

only to the 5th Respondent. I have come to the said conclusion exercising my 

discretion after a careful consideration of the whole matter and by reason 

of the special circumstances of this case. This Court is of the view that apart 

from  the  Petitioner,  hearing  the  Attorney  General  who  represents  the 

Secretary  to  the  JSC  is  sufficient  and  efficacious  in  arriving  at  a  final 

conclusion upon the questions identified in this case for the best interest of 

justice.” 

On 21.03.2025, when the matter came up for argument before us, the Counsel for 

the  5th  Respondent  raised  a  preliminary  objection  with  regard  to  the 

maintainability of this application on the basis that it would be futile. 

Page 3 of 12 

 
The Court directed both parties to tender their written submissions on this matter.  

Even though the Petitioner has a right of appeal against the said order in terms 

of Article 128 (1) or 128 (2) of the Constitution, there is no indication whether the 

Petitioner has exercised that right.   

The impact of refusing to issue notice on the Respondents was considered by His 

Lordship Arjuna Obeysekere J in Ensen Trading & Industry (Pvt) Limited v. Hon. 

Mangala Samaraweera and others, CA/Writ/41/2019, decided on 01.04.2019  and 

held that; 

“In  terms of Rule  3(4),  the  Court  will  consider  the  issuing  of notices only 

after the application is supported in open Court. The effect of Rule 3(4) is 

that  Court  will  issue  formal  notice  only  if  Court  is  satisfied  that  the 

Petitioner has made out a 'prima facie case'. The fact that notice is refused 

without proceeding to hear the Respondent, does not mean that there has 

not  been  an  adjudication  of  the  matter  or  that  the  matter  has  not  been 

decided by a Court of Law. Thus, when notice is refused in an application 

under  Article  140,  that  is  the  Order  of  this  Court  on  the  dispute  placed 

before Court in the petition and it is a final Order.” 

The main objection taken by the Respondent is that the only party on whom the 

notice was issued was the 5th Respondent, who was the Secretary to the Judicial 

Service Commission; therefore, whether such notice is sufficient to determine all 

issues in the case.  

In light of this Court’s decision to issue notice only against the 5th Respondent, it 

is  our  considered  view  that  we  are  unable  to  determine  the  legality  of  the 

impugned  order  marked  as  P17  in  the  absence  of  the  members  of  the  Judicial 

Service Commission before this Court who decided to terminate the service of the 

Petitioner. The particular decision was not taken by the 5th Respondent. Therefore, 

we are unable to consider that the order marked P17 is ultra vires.  

We  are  mindful  that  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  name  the  Judicial  Service 

Commission as a party to this application. We are also mindful that the Petitioner 

in his petition seeks the following reliefs: 

Page 4 of 12 

 
a)  “Issue Notice on the Respondents; 

b)  Call for and examine the record pertaining to the subject matter of 

this Application; 

c)  Grant  and  issue  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  a  Writ  of  Certiorari 

quashing the decision of the Judicial Service Commission contained 

in the document produced marked ‘P17’; 

d)  Make an interim order directing the 5th Respondent to produce before 

Your Lordships Court the proceedings of the purported inquiry held 

by the 6th Respondent and the report/recommendations made by the 

6th Respondent 

e)  Grant  and  issue  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  Writ  of  Certiorari 

quashing the report of the 6th Respondent which is in possession of 

the Judicial Service Commission 

f)  Grant and issue a Writ of Mandamus compelling the Judicial Service 

Commission to reinstate the Petitioner as a Judicial Officer. 

g)  Grant  and  issue  a  Writ  of  Mandamus  compelling  the  Judicial 

Services  Commission  to  grant  the  entitlements  of  a  Magistrate 

and/or pay back wages to the Petitioner until he is restored to service, 

h)  Grant costs, 

i)  And grant such other and further reliefs that Your Lordships’ Court 

shall seem meet” 

Although the members of the Judicial Service Commission were named as parties 

i.e. 1st to 4th Respondents, the Court refused to issue notice to them. This was not 

challenged till now.   

According to the prayer, one of the reliefs prayed for by the Petitioner is to issue a 

writ  of  mandamus  compelling  the  Judicial  Service  Commission  to  reinstate  the 

Petitioner as a Judicial Officer.  

However, the Court has only issued notice to the 5th Respondent, the Secretary to 

the  Commission.  In  terms  of  Article  111D  (1)  of  the  Constitution,  the  Judicial 

Service Commission consists of the Chief Justice and the 2 most senior Judges of 

the Supreme Court appointed by the President.  

Page 5 of 12 

 
“111 D (1) There shall be a Judicial Service Commission (in this Chapter 

referred to as the "Commission") consisting of the Chief Justice and the two 

most  senior  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  appointed  by  the  President 

[subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council.) 

(2) Where the Chief Justice and the two most senior Judges of the Supreme 

Court  are  Judges  who  have  not  had  any  judicial  experience  serving  as  a 

Magistrate or a District Judge], the Commission shall consist of the Chief 

Justice,  the  senior  most  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  and  the  next  most 

senior Judge of such Court, who has had experience as [a Magistrate or a 

District Judge]. 

(3) The Chief Justice shall be the Chairman of the Commission.]” 

According  to  Article  111H  (1)  (b),  it  gives powers  to  the  Commission  to  appoint 

judicial officers and scheduled public officers. Article 111H (4) gives authority to 

the Commission to delegate its power to the Secretary to the Commission only to 

make transfers in respect of scheduled public officers. 

Article 111H (4) reads as follows: 

“4. The Commission may by Order published in the Gazette delegate to the 

Secretary  to  the  Commission  the  power  to  make  transfers  in  respect  of 

scheduled public officers,  other than transfers involving increase of salary, 

or to make acting appointments in such cases and subject tosuch limitations 

as may be specified in the Order.” 

The  term  ‘scheduled  public  officers’  is  interpreted  in  Article  111M  of  the 

Constitution, which reads as follows: 

“Scheduled public officer” means the Registrar of the Supreme Court, the 

Registrar  of  the  Court  of  Appeal,  the  Registrar,  Deputy  Registrar  or 

Assistant Registrar of the High Court or any Court of First Instance, the 

Fiscal,  the  Deputy  Fiscal  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  or  High  Court  and  any 

Court of First Instance, any public officer employed in the Registry of the 

Supreme  Court,  Court  of  Appeal  or  High  Court  or  any  Court  of  First 

Page 6 of 12 

 
Instance included in a category specified in the Fifth Schedule or such other 

categories as may be specified by Order made by the Minister in charge of 

the  subject  of  Justice  and  approved  by  Parliament  and  published  in  the 

Gazette.” 

It is clear that the Constitution does not provide any delegation of power to the 

Secretary to appoint a Judicial Officer.  

Our Courts have held that writs will not be issued if it would be futile. 

In  Mendis,  Fozie,  and  Others  Vs.  Goonewardena  (1978-1979)  2  SLR  322,  His 

Lordship Vythialingam J held that: 

“It is true that the quashing of the findings will not restore the civic rights 

to the persons affected.” 

In Siddeek Vs. Jacolyn Seneviratne (1984) 1 SLR 83 at page 90, His Lordship Soza 

J held that: 

“It is necessary at this stage to bear in mind that certiorari is a discretionary 

remedy – see Wade: “Administrative Law” 5th Ed. (1982) pp. 546, 591. As de 

Smith says in his work “Judicial Review of Administrative Action” 4th Ed. 

(1980) p.404: 

“Thus,  certiorari  is  a  discretionary  remedy  and  may  be  withheld  if 

the conduct of the applicant, or, it would seem, the nature of the error 

does not justify judicial intervention.” 

The Court will have regard to the special circumstances of the case before 

issuing a writ of certiorari. The writ of certiorari clearly will not issue where 

the  end  result  will  be  futility,  frustration,  injustice  and  illegality. 

Accordingly  I  uphold  the  order  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  refusing  the 

appellant’s application for the issue of a writ of certiorari and dismiss this 

appeal with costs payable by the appellant to the 4th respondent.” 

In N.L.D. Ariyaratne v. P.B.P.K. Weerasinghe and Others, SC Appeal No. 182/16, 

Decided on 29.06.2017, Her Ladyship S. Eva Wanasundera PCJ. Held that: 

Page 7 of 12 

 
“I observe that the primary relief sought in the Application before the Court 

of Appeal  was for  a  writ  of Mandamus  to  recommence  the  Arbitration de 

novo  with  a  new  Arbitrator.  To  recommence  the  proceedings,  the 

Commissioner has no power under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes 

Act. It has to go through the hands of the Minister because it is the Minister 

who  has  the  power  to  appoint  an  Arbitrator.  The  Application  before  the 

Court of Appeal was to grant a writ of Mandamus on the Commissioner of 

Labour. If Court grants a writ of mandamus directing him to recommence 

the proceedings, that would be futile since he cannot act in commencing the 

fresh arbitration without power conferred on him by any of the provisions 

of the Act. The Court can issue a writ of mandamus only to the Minister to 

recommence  arbitration  proceedings  afresh.  When  the  Minister  is  not  a 

party to the case, granting a mandate in the nature of a writ of mandamus 

to  the  Commissioner  of  Labour  is  legally  incorrect.  So,  the  workman 

Petitioner’s application before court was improper without the Minister as 

a party. The relief is wrongly set down in the prayer. No writ will be issued 

by Court to result in futility.” 

The  main  relief  sought  by  the  Petitioner  is  to  compel  the  Judicial  Service 

Commission  to  reinstate  the  Petitioner.  But  he  has  failed  to  name  the  Judicial 

Service Commission as a party. The Court has issued notice only to the Secretary, 

who is not a member of the Commission. Under the Constitution, the Commission 

could only delegate the power to appoint scheduled officers. The question arises 

whether the 5th Respondent has a legal duty to reinstate the Petitioner. 

The following judicial pronouncements lay down the concept of writ of mandamus. 

In  The  King  v.  Revising  Barrister  for  the  Borough  of  Hanley.,  The  King  v.  The 

Town Clerk of Stoke on Trent, (1912) 3 KB 518 at 531, Channell J. 

“Those being the facts which I assume, a question of some difficulty arises 

as to whether that mistake can be set right. In my opinion it can, under a 

doctrine  of  this  Court,  which  is  an  extremely  useful  one,  and  which  was 

established by a majority of the judges in the Court of Exchequer Chamber 

in Mayor of Rochester v. Reg. (1) The principle laid down in that case is well 

Page 8 of 12 

 
established  and  has  to  my  knowledge  been  acted  upon  frequently.  The 

principle is that a mandamus will lie to compel the performance of a public 

duty  by  a  public  officer  although  the  time  prescribed  by  statute  for  the 

performance of it has passed; and if the public officer to whom belongs the 

performance of that duty has in the meantime quitted his office and been 

succeeded by another person, the writ may be directed to the successor, and 

it is his duty to obey it; and where there is no successor, but the person who 

ought to have performed the duty has become functus officio, the latter may 

be ordered to perform it, though the time within which he could of his own 

motion have performed it has passed. It is a most useful jurisdiction which 

enables this Court to set right mistakes. That principle, it seems to me, is 

applicable  to  the  present  case,  and  it  is  applicable  not  only  to  the  non-

performance of duties which the person who ought to have performed them 

has  refused  upon  demand  to  perform,  but  also  to  cases  where  the  non-

performance arises from mere inadvertence, where he cannot have had his 

attention directed to the matter and cannot have refused upon demand to 

perform  them.  The  requirement  that  before  the  Court  will  issue  a 

mandamus there must be a demand to perform the act sought to be enforced 

and a refusal to perform it is a very useful one, but it cannot be applicable 

in  all  possible  cases.  Obviously  it  cannot  apply  where  a  person  has  by 

inadvertence omitted to do some act which he was under a duty to do and 

where the time within which he can do it has passed.” (Emphasis added) 

In Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka v. Messrs Jafferjee and Jafferjee (Pvt) 

Ltd, 2005 (1) SLR 89, His Lordship De Silva, J; 

“The judicial control over the fast-expanding maze of bodies affecting rights 

of  the  people  should  not  be  put  into  watertight  compartments.  It  should 

remain flexible to meet the requirements of variable circumstances. 

There  is  rich  and  profuse  case  law  on  mandamus  on  the  conditions 

precedent to the issue of mandamus appear to be: 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
(a) The applicant must have a legal right to the performance of a legal 

duty  by  the  parties  against  whom  the  mandamus  is  sought  (R.  v 

Barnstaple Justices exp. Carder. The foundation of mandamus is the 

existence of a legal right (Napier ex parte). 

(b) The right  to be  enforced  must  be  a  "Public  Right"  and  the  duty 

sought to be enforced must be of a public nature. 

(c) The legal right to compel must reside in the applicant himself (R. 

v Lewisham Union) 

(d) The application must be made in good faith and not for an indirect 

purpose. 

(e)  The  application  must  be  preceded  by  a  distinct  demand  for  the 

performance of the duty. 

(f) The person or body to whom the writ is directed must be subject 

to the jurisdiction of the court issuing the writ. 

(g)  The  Court  will  as  a  general  rule  and  in  the  exercise  of  its 

discretion  refuse  writ  of  mandamus  when  there  is  another  special 

remedy  available  which  is  not  less  convenient,  beneficial  and 

effective. 

(h) The conduct of the applicant may disentitle him to the remedy, 

 (i) It would not be issued if the writ would be futile in its result. 

(j)  Writ  will  not  be  issued  where  the  respondent  has  no  power  to 

perform the act sought to be mandated. 

The above principles governing the issue of a writ of mandamus were also 

discussed at length in PK. Benarji v H.J. Simonds. Whether the facts show 

the  existence  of  any  or  all  pre-requisites  to  the  granting  of  the  writ  is  a 

question of law in each case to be decided not in any rigid or technical view 

of the question, but according to a sound and reasonable interpretation. The 

court will not grant a mandamus to enforce a right not of a legal but of a 

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
purely  equitable  nature  however  extreme  the  inconvenience  to  which the 

applicant might be put." (Emphases added).” 

In Janak Housing (Pvt) Ltd. and Another v. Urban Development Authority, 2008 

2 SLR 302 at page 304, His Lordship S. Sriskandarajah, J. held that; 

“The petitioner to seek a writ of mandamus must show that there resides in 

him  a  legal  right  to  the  performance  of a  legal  duty  by  the  party  against 

whom the mandamus is sought. Therefore that a mandamus may be issued 

to compel something to be done under a statute and it must be shown that 

the statute imposes a legal duty. In Ratnayake and Others v C.D. Perera 

and Others at 456 Sharvananda, J. with Victor Perera, J. and Colin-Thome, 

J. agreeing held; 

"The general rule of mandamus is that its function is to compel a 

public authority to do its duty. The essence of mandamus is that it is 

a command issued by the Superior Court for the performance of 

public legal duty. Where officials have a public duty to perform and 

have  refused  to  perform,  mandamus  will  lie  to  secure  the 

performance of the public duty, in the performance of which the 

applicant has sufficient legal interest. " 

In  the  instant  case,  there  is  no  legal  duty  owed  by  the  5th  Respondent  to  the 

Petitioner. When there is no legal duty, the Court has no power to issue a writ of 

mandamus  as prayed  by  the  Petitioner  to  reinstate  the  Petitioner  as a  Judicial 

Officer. Further, we note that the 5th Respondent is not a member of the Judicial 

Service Commission. Therefore, this Court is of the view that issuance of the writ 

of mandamus as prayed by the Petitioner, in these circumstances, would be futile. 

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
We uphold the preliminary objection raised by the 5th Respondent and dismiss the 

action accordingly 

 M.C.B.S. Morais, J.            

I AGREE 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
