CA Bail 0449-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Application No.                      Police Narcotics Bureau,  

CA Bail 0449/2024 

Colombo-01. 

COMPLAINANT    

                Vs. 

Magistrate Court of 

Seneviratne Dissanayakage Sajith  

Hambantota         

Thivanka 

Case No: BR/4622/2022 

(Presently in remand custody)  

9th SUSPECT 

                            AND NOW BETWEEN 

Dona Francis Nadeeka Gunasekara 

No. 21, Maha Ela Kandiya, 

Meda Para, Koggala.  

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
CA Bail 0449-2024 

Vs. 

1.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

2.  Th Officer-in-Charge 

Police Narcotics Bureau 

Colombo-01. 

RESPONDENTS 

AND 

Seneviratne Dissanayakage Sajith  

Thivanka 

(Presently in remand custody) 

9th SUSPECT 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Shamindra  Rodrigo  with  Eranda 

Sinharage for the Petitioner.  

Malik Azeez, SC for the Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

17/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

30/04/2025. 

***************************** 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
                  
 
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
CA Bail 0449-2024 

ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam, J. 

The Petitioner is the  wife  of the  9th  Suspect  named in the Hambantota 

Magistrate Case No. BR/4622/22.  

According  to  the  B  report  submitted  by  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau, 

Cololmbo-1,  the  9th  Suspect  was  for  the  possession  and  trafficking  of 

25.910 Kilograms of substance like Heroin. The substance recovered was 

sent  to  the  Government  Analyst  Department  for  analysis.  According  to 

the  Government  Analyst  Report  pure  quantity  of  14.2986 Kilograms  of 

Heroin (Diacetylmorphine) had been detected in the substance.    

The 9th Suspect was produced in the Magistrate Court of Colombo and 

facts  were  reported  under  Section  54A  (c)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984. 

Upon a Court order the 9th Suspect was placed under a detention order 

to facilitate the Police Narcotics Bureau to conduct further investigation 

with regard to the detection.  

The Petitioner states that the said quantity of Heroin had been recovered 

from two bags of paddy from the possession of a different Suspect and 

the 9th Suspect did not have any connection for the quantity of Heroin 

that was recovered. The Petitioner further states that the 9th Suspect had 

been arrested purely on statements provided by other Suspects who had 

falsely implicated the 9th Suspect in the said offence.    

The Petitioner submit that the 9th Suspect had been in remand for nearly 

29 six months without filing any charge against them. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0449-2024 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  The 9th Suspect had been in remand for over 28 months. 

2.  The 9th Suspect had no knowledge regarding the presence of any 

suspected narcotics which was in possession of another suspect. 

3.  The 9th Suspect was not involved in possession and trafficking any 

form of narcotics. 

The State opposing to bail submitted that the dossier of the investigations 

has been received by the Attorney General’s Department and registered 

under  CR3/474/2023.  The  matter  is  under  consideration  at  present.  

Hence,  Learned  State  Counsel  submitted  that  the  delay  is  not  an 

exceptional circumstance to be considered to enlarge the 9th Suspect on 

bail.  Further,  the  time  spent  for  preparing  the  indictment  does  not 

constitute an exceptional circumstance.  

The 9th Suspect is in remand nearly 29 months. According to Government 

Analyst Report, the pure quantity of Heroin detected from the possession 

of the 9th Suspect and others is 14.2986 Kilograms.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0449-2024 

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In this case, the pure quantity of Heroin detected in the production by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  14.2986  Kilograms.  Hence,  this  court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping  the  9th  Suspect  in  remand  custody  is  a  clear  violation  of  his 

human rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed 

under the Article 13(5) of the Constitution. 

A court can consider evidence in a bail inquiry. During a bail hearing, 

the  court  typically  evaluates  various  factors  to  determine  whether  a 

Suspect should be granted bail, such as the risk of flight, the likelihood 

of  reoffending,  and  the  safety  of  the  community.  The  court  may  also 

review  evidence  related  to  the  Suspect’s  criminal  history,  ties  to  the 

community, and the specifics of the current charges. 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0449-2024 

Ultimately, the court’s role during a bail inquiry is to weigh the available 

evidence to decide if the Suspect can be trusted to return for trial or if 

they pose a danger to public safety. 

In  this  case  the  9th  Suspect  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(d)  and  (b)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.The offences are very 

serious offences and the seriousness of the offence should be considered 

when bail is considered.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that this is not appropriate case 

to  consider  the  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the 

investigations  at  this  stage.  It  can  only  be  tested  at  the  trial  upon  the 

witnesses being cross examined and re-examined.  

In  Ranil  Charuka  Kulatunga  v.  Attorney  General  CA  (PHC)  APN 

134/2015 the court held that: 

“The quantity of cocaine involved in this case is 62.847 grams, 

which is a commercial quantity. If Petitioner is convicted, the 

punishment  is  death  or  life  imprisonment.  Under  these 

circumstances, it is prudent to conclude the trial early while 

the Petitioner is kept in custody.” 

In Carder (On behalf of Rashid Kahan) v Officer-in-Charge Narcotics 

Bureau [2006] 3 SLR 74 the Court held that: 

“Heroin has become a menace in our society. It is not easily 

detectable. Due to the fact alone, the tendency to commit this 

kind of crime repeatedly has become feasible. The repetitive 

factor  prevalent  in  this  sort  of  crime  and  the  difficulty  of 

detection are significantly strong reasons for refusing bail in 

this type of cases.”   

6 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0449-2024 

In  this  case  the  pure  Heroin  detected  is  14.2986  Kilograms,  which 

certainly a very high commercial quantity. Considering the seriousness 

of  the  sentence  prescribed  under  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs Ordinance, there is a high risk of absconding. 

Hence, I do not consider the delay nearly 29 months in remand falls into 

the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of  Heroin  detected,  the  seriousness  of  the  charges  could  be  framed 

against the 9th Suspect and the circumstances of the case, I consider this 

is not an appropriate case to sanction bail to the 9th Suspect at this stage. 

Hence, I refuse to release the 9th Suspect on bail. 

Hence, this Bail Application is dismissed. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  this  order  to  the  Magistrate 

Court  of  Hambantota  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Narcotics 

Bureau, Colombo-01. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
