IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

An  Appeal  under  Article  154  and  6  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  read  with  Section  9 
of the High Court of the Provinces (Special 
Provisions) Act, No.19 of 1990  

Office-in-Charge,  
Police Station, 
Nagoda. 

                     Complainant 

CA PHC 0059 /2020 

Vs. 

High Court of Galle  
HC 341/2018 

MC- Baddegama 
Case No. 96066 

1. Katuneliya Gamage Dilshan Theekshana 

Kumara, 

   Wila Mawatha, 
  Unanvitiya. 

Accused 

2. Ganegoda Gamage Indika Sudarshani, 
  Bandaranayakapura, 
  Udalamaththa. 

      Registered-Owner 

3. Peoples Leasing Company, 
  Maradana Road,  
  Colombo 08. 

Absolute-Owner 

AND THEN BETWEEN 

  Ganegoda Gamage Indika Sudarshani, 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
              
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
 
  Bandaranayakapura, 
  Udalamaththa. 

     Registered-Owner- Petitioner 

Vs.  

Office-in-Charge,  
Police Station, 
Nagoda. 

Complainant-1st Respondent 

  Katuneliya Gamage Dilshan Theekshana 

Kumara, 

   Wila Mawatha, 
  Unanvitiya. 

Accused-2nd Respondent 

  Peoples Leasing Company, 
  Maradana Road,  
  Colombo 08. 

 Absolute Owner- 3rd Respondent 

Hon. Attorney General, 
Attorney General’s Department, 
Colombo 12. 

Complainant-4th Respondent 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

  Ganegoda Gamage Indika Sudarshani, 
  Bandaranayakapura, 
  Udalamaththa. 

2 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
       Registered Owner- Petitioner-Appellant 

Vs.  

Office-in-Charge,  
Police Station, 
Nagoda. 

          Complainant- 
1st Respondent-Respondent 

  Katuneliya Gamage Dilshan Theekshana 

Kumara, 

   Wila Mawatha, 
  Unanvitiya. 

Accused-2nd Respondent-
Respondent 

  Peoples Leasing Company, 
  Maradana Road,  
  Colombo 08. 

                  Absolute Owner- 3rd Respondent-
Respondent 

Hon. Attorney General, 
Attorney General’s Department, 
Colombo 12. 

        Complainant- 4th Respondent-
Respondent 

Before:      B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

Amal Ranaraja, J. 

3 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Counsel:  Thanuka Nandasiri for the Appellant. 

Wishwa Wijesuriya, S.C. for the Respondents. 

Supported on:    06.03.2025 

Decided on:        27.03.2025 

ORDER 

AMAL RANARAJA, J. 

1.  The Registered Owner-Petitioner-Appellant’s (hereinafter referred to as 

the  “appellant”)  husband,  a  registered-contractor  has  utilised  the 

vehicle bearing registration no. 47-4650 for purposes connected to his 

business such as the transport of  building material and labourers to 

the building sites. 

2.  On  24.12.2017,  the  husband  of  the  appellant  as  per  the  usual 

practice  has  utilised  the  particular  vehicle  to  transport  building 

material/labourers  to  a  building  site  situated  in  a  school  in 

Yakkalamulla  Kottegoda.  Unknown  to  the  appellant  or  her  husband, 

the  Nagoda  Police  had  arrested  the  driver  of  such  vehicle  for 

transporting  timber  without  a  valid  permit  in  terms  of  section  24(1) 

read with section 25(2) and section 40 of the Forests Ordinance No. 16 

of  1907  (as  amended).  The  Nagoda  police  has  also  seized  the  said 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vehicle  bearing  registration  no.  47-4650  which  had  been  used  to 

transport the timber.  

3.  Thereafter, the Officer-in-Charge of the Nagoda Police Station has filed 

action  in  the  Baddegama  Magistrate  Court  against  the  driver  for 

transporting  timber  without  a  valid  permit,  an  offence  in  terms  of 

section  24(1)  and  section  40  of  the  Forest  Ordinance.  The  driver  (as 

the  “accused”) upon pleading guilty to the charge has been convicted 

and sentenced.  

4.  Subsequently,  a  confiscation  inquiry  has  been  held  regarding  the 

vehicle  bearing  registration  no.  47-4650.  At  the  conclusion  of  the 

inquiry,  by  order  dated  03.08.2018,  the  Learned  Magistrate  has 

ordered  the  confiscation  of  the  said  vehicle.  Aggrieved  by  the  order, 

the appellant has filed an application in revision [HC RA 341/2018] in 

the  High  Court  of  Galle.  The  Learned  High  Court  Judge  by  his  order 

dated 17.06.2020 has dismissed the revision application and affirmed 

the  order  of  the  Learned  Magistrate  dated  03.08.2018.  The  appellant 

also being aggrieved by the order of the  Learned  High Court  Judge of 

Galle date 17.06.2020 has preferred the instant appeal to this Court.  

5.  The facts of this appeal were not disputed. It is common ground that 

the  officer-in-charge  of  the  Nagoda  Police  Station  had  instituted 

proceedings  against 

the  driver 

i.e.  Theekshana  Kumara 

for 

5 

 
 
 
 
transporting  Nadun  and  Mahogany  timber  valued  at  Rs.  386,293.61 

on  24.12.2017  without  a  permit  and  thereby  committing  an  offence 

punishable under sections 24(1), 25(2) and 40 of the Forest Ordinance 

No. 06 of 1907 (as amended).  

6.  Section  40  of  the  Forest  Ordinance  No.  16  of  1907  (as  amended) 

provides,  

“(1) Where any person is convicted of a forest offence –  

(a) All timber of forest produce which is not the property of the State in 

respect of which such offence has been committed; and  

(b) all  tools,  vehicles,  implements,  cattle  and  machines  used  in 

committing such offence,  

shall  in addition  to  any  other  punishment specified for  such  offence,  be 

confiscated by Order of the convicting Magistrate: 

Provided  that  in  any  case  where  the  owner  of  such  tools,  vehicles, 

implements  and  machines  used  in  the  commission  of  such  offence,  is  a 

third party, no Order of Confiscation shall be made if such owner proves 

to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Court  that  he  had  taken  all  precautions  to 

prevent the use of such tools, vehicles, implements, cattle and machines, 

as the case may be, for the commission of the offence.  

(2) Any property forfeited to the State under subsection (1) shall –  

(a) if  no  appeal  has  been  preferred  to  the  Court  of  Appeal  against  the 

relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the State with effect from the 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
date on which the period prescribed for preferring an appeal against 

such conviction expires;  

(b) if  an  appeal  has  been  preferred  to  the  Court  of  Appeal  against  the 

relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the State with effect from the 

date on which such conviction is affirmed on appeal.  

In  this  subsection,  “relevant  conviction”  means  the  conviction  in 

consequence  of  which  any  property  is  forfeited  to  the  State  under 

subsection (1)”.  

7.  Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance states that upon a conviction, all 

timber  and  forest  produce  that  have  been  the  subject  matter  of  the 

offence and vehicles used for the commission of such offence would be 

confiscated.  If  the  owner  of  a  vehicle  himself  was  the  accused  in  the 

preceding case then the issue before a Court in a confiscation inquiry 

will  not  be  complicated.  However,  if  the  owner  is  a  third  party,  it 

would  be  necessary  for  a  Court  to  ascertain  whether  the  offence  has 

been  committed  by  a  particular  accused  with  the  knowledge  and  the 

connivance  of  the  owner  of  such  vehicle  used  for  the  commission  of 

the forest offence.  

8.  In  The  Finance  Company  PLC  vs.  Chandana  and  Others  [SC 

Appeal  No.  105A/2008  and  SC.  (SPL)  L.  A.166/2008],  decided  on 

30.09.2010, Dr. Shirani Bandaranayake CJ has stated,  

“(a)  In  terms  of  section  40  of  the  Forest  Ordinance  as  amended,  if 

the  owner  of  the  vehicle  in  question was  a  third  party,  no  order  of 

7 

 
 
 
 
confiscation  shall  be  made  if  that  owner  had  proved  to  the 

satisfaction  of  the  Court  that  he  had  taken  all  precautions  to 

prevent the use of the said vehicle for the commission of the offence.  

(b)  It  would  be  necessary  for  the  owner  of  the  vehicle  to  establish 

that the vehicle that had been used for the commission of the offence 

had  been  so  used  without  his  knowledge  and  that  the  owner  had 

taken  all  precautions  available  to  prevent the use  of  the  vehicle  for 

the commission of such an offence”.  

9.  The  Learned  Counsel  for  the  appellant  has  contended  that  the 

Learned Magistrate has erred in concluding that the registered owner 

had  not  taken  all  precautions  available  to  prevent  the  use  of  the 

vehicle for the commission of the offence stated in the charge and that 

the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  erred  in  evaluating  evidence  that  had 

not  been  admitted  at  the  confiscation  inquiry  and  remained  outside 

the scrutiny of the legal process, rendering it irrelevant in the eyes of 

the  law.  He  has  further  contended  that,  unadmitted  evidence  has 

created  substantial  gaps  in  understanding  and  has  influenced  the 

inquiry’s fairness.  

10.  The appellant as the sole witness called to give evidence on behalf of 

the  owner  has  declared  that  she  was  the  registered  owner  of  the 

vehicle in question. That she has provided explicit instructions to the 

driver regarding the use and parking of the vehicle to ensure it is not 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
involved in any unlawful activities. Specifically, she has instructed the 

driver  to  refrain  from  using  the  vehicle  to  commit  any  offences. 

Additionally,  to  further  safeguard  against  the  potential  misuse  of  the 

vehicle,  she  has  directed  the  driver  to  park  it  in  the  garden  of  her 

house  at  the  end  of  each  day.  This  precaution  aims  to  minimise  the 

risk  of  the  vehicle  being  used  unlawfully,  the  driver  it  is  stated  by 

following  those  instructions  can  maintain  the  integrity  of  the  vehicle 

and uphold the law.  

11.  The  appellant’s  evidence  as  the  registered-owner  is  both  cogent  and 

compelling.  As  a  witness,  the  appellant has  not  been  impeached  and 

therefore her testimony stands strong and reliable. She has presented 

irrefutable  evidence  demonstrating  on  a  balance  of  probability  that 

she has taken the necessary precautions to ensure that no offence is 

committed  using  her  vehicle.  Moreover, she  has  made  diligent  efforts 

to maintain both the integrity of the vehicle and adherence to the law.  

12.  In  Adambarage  Kelum  Thushantha  Alwis  vs.  The  Attorney 

General  [CA  (PHC)  211/  2019]  decided  on  07.02.2023,  Iddawela  J, 

has stated,  

“However,  it  is  more  appropriate  to  note  that  corroboration  of 

evidence is not imperative where there is irrefutable evidence at face 

value, provided by the appellant to satisfy the court on a balance of 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
probability that necessary precautionary measures have been taken 

as  a  reasonable  owner  of  the  vehicle  to  prevent  the  commission  of 

offences by using the vehicle.”  

13.  When  considering  the  contents  quoted  above,  it  is  clear  that  if 

indisputable evidence is provided by the appellant to satisfy the Court 

on  a  balance  of  probability  of  the  precautionary  measures  taken  by 

her to prevent the use of the particular vehicle to commit an offence, 

then  evidence  to  corroborate  the  narrative  of  the  appellant  is  not 

essential.   

14.  Further  the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  has  concluded  that  the 

appellant  did  not  have  control  over  the  vehicle  in  issue.  This 

determination has been based on the contents of a document that had 

not  been  admitted  as  evidence  during  the  confiscation  inquiry.  Such 

determination, therefore has not been based on a fact in evidence. In 

such circumstances, by relying on such document, the  Learned High 

Court Judge has erred in his understanding;  

10 

 
 
 
 
15.  As  a  consequence,  the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  has  misdirected 

himself  when  he  affirmed  the  order  of  the  Learned  Magistrate  dated 

03.08.2017.  Hence,  we  set  aside  the  orders  dated  03.08.2017  and 

17.06.2020  of  the  Learned  Magistrate  and  the  Learned  High  Court 

Judge respectively.  

16.  We direct the vehicle bearing registration no. 47-4650 be released to 

the appellant. 

17.  The Registrar of this Court is directed to communicate this judgment 

to the Magistrate Court of Baddegama for compliance. 

 Appeal allowed.  

B. SASI MAHENDRAN, J. 

                        I agree. 

 Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
