IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

CA (Writ) Application No. 776/2024 

In the matter of an  application for the mandates in 
the nature of a Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition in 
terms  of  the  article  140  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Namunukula Plantations PLC 
No. 310 High Level Road 
Nawinna 
Maharagama 

Vs 
1. 

2. 

3. 

Commissioner General of Labour 
Department of Labour 
11th Floor 
“Mehewara Piyaasa” Building 
Colombo 5 

I. C. Gamage 
Labour Officer 
Termination of Employment Unit 
Department of Labour 
Colombo 5 

Happawana Vithanage Sujeeva 
No.23 Ranpokuna Village 
Welikala 
Pokunuwila 

Petitioner 

Respondents 

Before: 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

Damith Thotawatte, J. 

Counsel 

Suren Fernando with Shiloma David for the Petitioner 
Dilantha Sampath, SC for the 1st and 2nd Respondents 
S. H. A. Mohamed with Pramod Polpitiya for the 03rd Respondent  

supported 

29-01-2025 

Written submissions 
tendered on: 

21-02-2025 By the 1st and 2nd Respondents 
10-03-2025 By the Petitioner and 3rd Respondent 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Order Delivered on: 

30-04-2025 

D. Thotawatte, J. 

The petitioner Namunukula Plantations PLC, has filed this petition seeking a writ of Certiorari to quash 
the order and the decision contained therein of the first respondent Commissioner General of Labour 
dated  22nd  October  2024  (annexed  to  this  petition  marked  as  P13)  which  was  delivered  at  the 
conclusion of an inquiry instituted on the complaint of the 3rd Respondent claiming that the Petitioner 
had constructively terminated her employment. 

The Petitioner has also prayed for a writ of Prohibition preventing Respondents taking any further 
steps to enforce the impugned order by which  the Petitioner is directed to pay Rs. 2,462,100/- as 
compensation. 

When this matter was supported on the 29-01-2025 the learned State Counsel appearing for the 1st 
and the 2nd Respondents took up a preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of this action 
on the ground that the petitioner has failed to comply with the threshold requirement of Section 10B 
of the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act No 45 of 1971 (hereinafter 
for the purposes of this order known as the TEW Act) as amended by Act No 23 of 2022.  

Section 10 B (3) of the TEW Act state that when an application is made for an order in the nature of a 
writ, against an order of the Commissioner General of Labour, under the provisions of TEW Act, the 
Petitioner needs to support the application with a certificate from the Commissioner- General to the 
effect that the security as specified had been duly furnished.  

In response to the aforementioned preliminary objection, the Petitioner, in its written submissions, 
has advanced three grounds contending that compliance with the provisions of the TEW Act is not 
required. 

1.  The Petitioner was not the employer of the 3rd Respondent at the time of the alleged 

termination and only the relevant provisions of the TEW Act are applicable to the employer. 

2.  The practical compliance with Section 10B (2), (3), and (4) of the TEW Act is not possible.  
3.   A constitutional right granted cannot be restricted by the legislature. 

1.  The Petitioner was not the employer of the 3rd Respondent  

The above Argument is based on the circumstances under which the 3rd Respondent's employment 
came to an end. According to the petition, by 21st of September 2018 the 3rd Respondent was working 
for the Petitioner as an “Administrative Executive”. A letter dated 21-09-2021 (annexed marked as P6) 
signed by the General Manager of Richard Pieris & Co. PLC. had been issued to the 3rd Respondent 
stating that “they” are prepared to transfer the 3rd Respondent from the Petitioner company to RPC 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Polymers (Pvt). Ltd. In response to letter P6, the 3rd Respondent has written to GM Richard Pieris & 
Co. PLC. (letter annexed as P7) requesting the transfer to be differed and allow her to remain with the 
Petitioner company, as she has never requested a transfer. Although the Petitioner has stated that 
they informed the 3rd Respondent that they are unable to accede to her request, there is no indication 
of a written response.  

Although there is no indication that the 3rd Respondent withdrew her formal protest regarding the 
transfer, it is the contention of the Petitioner that the 3rd Respondent, by reporting to work at RPC 
Polymers  (Pvt)  Ltd  on  02-10-2023  has  accepted  the  transfer.  However,  from  05-10-2023  the  3rd 
Respondent failed to report to work at RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd without permission or leave. The GM 
Richard Pieris & Co. had written a letter dated 12-10-2023 (annexed marked P8) informing the 3rd 
Respondent to report to work or they will have to consider that she has voluntarily vacated her post.   

Subsequent to the letter P8 the GM Richard Pieris & Co. had received a letter (annexed marked P9) 
from the 3rd Respondent stating that upon reporting to work at RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd as per letter 
dated 21-09-2023(P6) she found that the work she was assigned was totally unfamiliar to her and as 
such she considered by this transfer her services had been constructively terminated. 

On 09-10-2023, the 3rd Respondent has submitted a complaint to the Department of Labour regarding 
the termination of her services. 

With regards to the letter of transfer (P6) being written by GM Richard Pieris & Co., the Petitioner’s 
explanation is that  Namunukula Plantations PLC, which was initially Namunukula Plantations Ltd.  was 
acquired by Richard Pieris & Co. PLC. in the year 2008 and brought under the umbrella of its group of 
companies. Further that RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd is also a company within said group of companies. 

The Petitioner has not submitted any documents to substantiate the fact, that the above companies 
operate as a group or as a single administrative structure. However, that is not a relevant matter for 
the purposes of this application. 

The Petitioners contend that, by reporting to work at RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd, the 3rd Respondent 
thereby  accepted  a  transfer  to  a  distinct  separate  legal  entity,  which  ipso  facto  resulted  in  the 
formation of a new contract of employment. Consequently, the Petitioners assert that they ceased to 
be the employers of the 3rd Respondent from that point onwards. 

The  3rd  Respondent's  only  contract  of  employment  is  with  Namunukula  Plantations  Ltd  (annexed 
marked P2); thereafter, all letters with regards to the employment, including the transfer letter (P6) are 
done on behalf of Namunukula Plantations. There is no letter of offer or contract of employment with 
RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd. 

The  letter  P6  mentions  a  transfer,  not  a  termination  of  service.  The  letter  further  states  that  the 
designation and remuneration will remain the same and service at the Namunukula Plantations will be 

3 

 
              
 
 
considered for all purposes including gratuity. There is absolutely no mention of termination of services 
or re-employment.  

If  the  Petitioner  genuinely  believes  that  the  3rd  Respondent’s  act  of  reporting  to  the  designated 
workplace, in compliance with the instructions, resulted in the termination of her employment with 
the  Petitioner,  it  is  apparent  that  the  Petitioner  should  have  been  aware  of  this  at  the  time  of 
transferring the 3rd Respondent to RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd. Considering this fact, it appears highly likely 
that this transfer was orchestrated with the intention of effecting such termination. By refusing to 
reconsider  the  decision  when  requested  to  do  so,  the  Petitioner  effectively  deprived  the  3rd 
Respondent of any alternative but to adhere to the instructions given.  In these circumstances, the 
Petitioner  appears  to  have  sought  to  circumvent  the  statutory  safeguards  against  unlawful 
termination embodied in the TEW Act. 

The Petitioner has consistently asserted that the 3rd Respondent's act of reporting to work at RPC 
Polymers (Pvt) Ltd constitutes acceptance of the transfer. However, even assuming, purely for the sake 
of argument, that this contention is correct, such acceptance would amount only to an acceptance of 
a transfer and not a termination of the 3rd Respondent’s employment with the Petitioner. 

In the circumstances and reasons given above, I consider Petitioner’s argument that by reporting to 
work at RPC Polymers (Pvt) Ltd, the 3rd Respondent ceased to be Petitioner’s employee unattainable. 

Further, a review of the documents filed with the petition shows that this argument was not raised 
before  the  Commissioner  General  of  Labour,  either  before  or  at  the  start  of  the  inquiry.  If  the 
Petitioner had formally objected on the basis that it was not the employer, the Commissioner General 
of Labour would have been required to consider  it. However, neither the petition nor the written 
submissions state that such an objection was made. 

After fully participating in the Inquiry as the employer, I am of the view that the Petitioner is estopped 
from now taking up the position that he is not the employer.  

On the above grounds, I reject the contention of the Petitioner that it is not the employer 

2.  The practical compliance with Section 10B (2), (3) and (4) of the TEW Act is not 

possible 

Section 10B of the TEW Act 

10B 

(1)  Where an employer is dissatisfied with an order made by 
Commissioner-General  under  section  6  or  6A,  such 
employer may make an application to the Court of Appeal 

4 

 
 
 
 
                      
against such order for the issue of an order in the nature 
of a writ. 

(2)  Every  employer  who  makes  an  application  under 
subsection (1) for the issue of an order in the nature of a 
writ shall furnish to the Court of Appeal, a security in cash, 
where the order which is the subject of such application 
directs– 

(a)  both  the  payment  of  a  sum  of  money  as 
compensation  and  the  reinstatement,  of  an 
amount of money, as salary or wages which is to be 
calculated from the date of such order to the date 
on which such workman shall be reinstated, and an 
amount  of  twelve  times  the  monthly  salary  or 
wages of such workman for the reinstatement; and 
(b)  only  the  payment  of  a  sum  of  money  to  the 
workman as compensation, of an amount equal to 
such sum. 

(3)  Every application for the issue of an order in the nature of 
a writ, made under subsection (1) shall be supported by a 
certificate under the hand of the Commissioner-General to 
the effect that the security as specified in  subsection (2) 
has been duly furnished by such employer. 

(4)  The Commissioner-General shall cause to be deposited the 
sum as specified in subsection (2), in an account bearing 
interest, maintained by the Commissioner-General, in any 
approved bank in Sri Lanka. 

(5)  The Commissioner-General shall refund the sum furnished 
under  subsection  (2)  together  with  the  interest  on  such 
in  terms  of  the  final 
sum  to  the  relevant  party 
determination of the application to the Court of Appeal or 
the Supreme Court, as the case may be. 

Petitioner  argues  that  if  they  deposit  the  stipulated  amount  in  the Court  of  Appeal  as  security  in 
compliance with Section 10B (2) that it will not be possible for them to get a certificate from the 
Commissioner General of Labour. Further, if the money is deposited with the Court of Appeal, the 
Commissioner of Labour will not be able to deposit the said money in an account bearing interest or 
maintain such an account as directed by Section 10B (4). 

In the event of ambiguity, meaning should be given to what appears to be the primary objective of 
the legislature in enacting Amendment No. 2 of 2022 to the TEW Act. In terms of Section 10B (2) of 
the  TEW  Act,  an  employer  who  seeks  to  invoke  the  discretionary  writ  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  of 
Appeal is required to furnish security in cash. The underlying legislative purpose of this requirement 
appears to be to safeguard against the institution of frivolous or vexatious applications which may 
unduly  delay  the  reinstatement  and  reparations  with  regard  to  the  employee.  In  the  event  the 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
employer is unsuccessful at the conclusion of the review, the sum of money originally granted to the 
employee will be secured regardless of the financial or legal states of the employer at that time. This 
requirement  protects  the  rights  of  workmen  who  are  considered  to  constitute  the  economically 
weaker party, and strikes an appropriate balance between the employer's right to seek judicial review 
and the necessity of preventing abuse of judicial process. 

In the event of uncertainty, meaning should be given to what appears to be the primary objective of 
the legislature in enacting Amendment No. 23 of 2022 to the TEW Act. There is no Impediment for the 
money to be deposited with the Commissioner General of Labour so that the sum specified could be 
deposited in an account bearing interest to be maintained by him (the Commissioner-General) in any 
approved  bank  in  Sri  Lanka.  Further,  in  order  to  comply  with  Section  10B,  the  above  procedure 
appears to have been followed since this section became operational, whenever an application for 
judicial review is made under the TEW Act. 

On the above grounds, I reject the contention of the Petitioner that the compliance with Section 10 
B (2), (3), and (4) of the TEW Act is not possible. 

3.  The Legislature cannot restrict a right granted by the Constitution  

In 2022, together with the TEW Act Amendment No.  23 of  2022, an amendment was brought to the 
Industrial Disputes Act 43 of 1950 as Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 2022. The new 
section 31DDDDD introduced to the Industrial Disputes Act appears similar to Section 10 B of the TEW 
Act. In the written submission tendered on behalf of the Petitioner, it is contended that these sections are 
not identical based on the wording; however, when considering the intended purpose, the core rationale 
of both amendments are identical. Both amendments share a common legislative purpose, which is 
to safeguard employee rights by deterring bad faith litigation by employers and ensuring that financial 
guarantees are provided before delaying the implementation of decisions in favor of workmen, whilst 
still preserving the employer’s right to seek judicial recourse. 

Under  the  above-ground  Judicial  pronouncements  regarding  the  requirement  to  furnish  security 
prior to applying for judicial review under Section 31DDDDD of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) 
Act, No. 22 of 2022, is applicable regarding the furnishing of security under the TEW Act amendment 
No. 23 of 2022. 

The decision of the Court of Appeal in Lanka Electricity Company (Private) Limited v. B.K. Prabhath 
Chandrakeerthi  and  others1  provides  authoritative  guidance  on  the  jurisdictional  precondition 
imposed by Section 31DDDDD of the Industrial Disputes Act (as amended by Act No. 22 of 2022), 
which mandates the deposit of a security and a certificate for maintainability of writ applications by 
employers against arbitral or industrial court awards. 

His Lordship Mayadunne Corea J has stated: 

By the new amendment, the Legislature has created pre-conditions the Petitioner has to 

1 CA/Writ/120/2024, decided on 20.12.2024 

6 

 
 
                                                        
comply with. The wording in the said pre-condition reads as “the Court of Appeal shall 
entertain”. Hence, as per the new amendment, for the Court of Appeal to entertain an 
Application, the Petitioner has to follow the said conditions stipulated in the Amendment 
Act, No. 22 of 2022. 

In  summary,  by  the  new  Amendment,  the  Legislature  has  imposed  the  conditions  to 
deposit the security and for the Petition to accompany the certificate under the hand of 
the  Labour  Commissioner to enable his Application to be entertained by  the Court of 
Appeal pursuant to the Section. It is the view of this Court that the Petitioner has to make 
the deposit of security before he files the Writ Application. 

Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act No 23 of 2022 Section 10B (3) also 
reads as “Every application for the issue of an order in the nature of a writ, made under subsection 
(1) shall be supported by a certificate under the hand of the Commissioner-General”. Hence, it is clear 
that, for the Court of Appeal to entertain an application, it is mandatory for the Petitioner to follow 
this said conditions and further it should be done at the time of filing or at least before the application 
is supported.  

In Duro Pipe Industrial (Pvt) Ltd vs Hettige Pradeep Silva2 Cited in Lanka Electricity Company3 his 
Lordship Justice Samayawardana has stated;   

“If the appeal, application for revision or writ is not accompanied by a certificate issued 
under the hand of the president of the Labour Tribunal confirming that the appellant or 
applicant as the case may be has furnished the required security as stated in section 3 1 
D (8), the high court shall reject the appeal or application. 

Play virtue of section 1A and 1B of section 31DD and section 31DDDDD of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, introduce by Act number 22 of 2022 the attachment of such a certificate 
obtained  from  the  Labor  Tribunal  is  mandatory  when  the  employer  invokes  the 
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal as well”. 

Considering  the  alignment  in  legislative  intent  as  previously  mentioned,  it  is  clear  that  Section 
31DDDDD of the Industrial Disputes Act and Section 10 B of the TEW Act create an identical statutory 
threshold for identical reasons. Rationale in Duro Pipe and Lanka Electricity is equally applicable with 
regard to furnishing of Security under Section 10 B of the TEW Act.  

As the principle of depositing or furnishing the sum equal to the reinstatement linked payments or 
compensation is accepted by the courts it can be termed as settled law. As such, in this particular 

2 SC/APPEAL/111/2022 decided on 02-12-2024 
3 Note 1, supra. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
instant I do not see any merit in the Petitioner’s argument that the legislature cannot restrict a right 
given by the Constitution.    

For the above stated reasons, this Court is inclined to uphold the objections of the Respondents. In my 
view, the Petitioners have failed to comply with a mandatory precondition that should be complied 
with before the court is able to consider this application. As such, this Court is not inclined to issue 
formal notice on the Respondents. 

Application is dismissed. 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
