IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

BAL-0365-24 

In the matter of an Application for Bail 

under  and  in  terms  of  Section  83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs  Ordinance  No.  17  of  1929  as 

amended  by  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 

41 of 2022. 

Mira Mohideen Nawazdeen, 

42/30, Dollar Rosa Road,  

Court of Appeal Case No. 

Pallansena South, Kochchikade. 

CA/BAL/0365/2024 

       Petitioner 

Magistrate Court of Negombo        Vs. 

Case No. M 72771 

1.  Officer-in-Charge, 

Vice Prevention Unit, 

Head Quarters Police Station, 

Negombo. 

2.  Hon. Attorney General, 

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo 12. 

    Respondent 

AND 

Nawazdeen Mohomed Zakir. 

         Suspect-Respondent 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0365-24 

BEFORE :   

P. KUMARARATNAM, J.  

K.M.G.H. KULATUNGA, J. 

COUNSEL:   

Punarji D. Karunasena for the Petitioner.  

Wishwa Wijesuriya, SC for the Respondents. 

INQUIRY ON:  

27.02.2025  

DECIDED ON: 

02.04.2025 

K.M.G.H. KULATUNGA, J. 

ORDER  

1.  This  application  for  bail  is  made  under  Section  83(2)  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance seeking bail for the suspect, 

Nawazdeen Mohomed Zakir. It is alleged that the suspect was arrested 

on  02.08.2023  with  26.04  grammes  of  Methamphetamine.  The 

exceptional circumstance relied upon is that the exact place in which 

the narcotics were concealed or found from is not specifically stated in 

the B Report and also the absence of a summary of the evidence. The 

petitioner relied on the decision of this court in Sumathipala V. A.G. 

CA/PHC/APN/ 09 of 2010 decided on 19.07.2010. The relevant portion 

of the said order is as follows; 

“In the B report filed by the police, the police have failed to state 

the  particular  place  (the  body  of  the  suspect)  where  heroin  was 

found  although  they  claimed  that  heroin  was  found  in  the 

possession of the suspect. We have gone through the B report and 

according to the B report that the heroin was found in the house of 

said  Deepa  Priyangani  De  Silva.  As  I  pointed  out  earlier  the  B 

report does not indicate the particular place of the body from which 

the heroin was found (the body of the suspect).” 

2.  Relying on this decision, time and again petitioners in applications for 

bail have been taking up the ground that the B Report not specifying or 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0365-24 

stating  the  particular  place  from  which  the  narcotic  was  found.  The 

particular place in the context being the exact part of the body of the 

suspect when the recovery is from the person of the suspect. It is argued 

that when the narcotic is found in the personal possession the exact 

location  of  the  body  or  made  of  concealment  should  be  narrated  and 

stated in the B Report.  

3.  To my mind, the said dicta of Justice Sisira De Abrew is more often than 

not,  is  taken  out  of  context  and  quoted  in  the  abstract.  This  dictum 

should  be  considered  in  the  factual  context  of  the  said  mater  which 

Justice Abrew expounded the aforesaid where the facts are unique. The 

facts of that case are that the suspect had been in a house of another 

when the officer in charge of the Angulana Police Station is alleged to 

have come to  a house  to introduce heroin to the owner of  the  house. 

However,  the  suspect  who  happened  to  be  in  the  house  had  heated 

exchange of words with the OIC and had also assaulted the OIC. It is in 

this back drop that  the alleged introduction of heroin is said to have 

been made to the said suspect.  

4.  In this scenario, the B Report has stated that heroin was found in the 

house  of  the  said  Priyangani  De  Silva.  However,  the  said  suspect 

Premalal Dammika who happened to be in the house was also produced 

before  the  Magistrate  for  possession  of narcotics.  It  is  in  this  contest 

that the failure to mention that particular place of the body from which 

the heroin was recovered was considered as material. 

5.   I observe that Justice Abrew does not either directly or otherwise lay 

down or prescribe a mandatory requirement as of a rule to state in the 

report the exact place of the body from which the recovery was made. 

In that case the B Report has stated that the heroin was found in the 

house of Priyangani De Silva and then also stated that the heroin was 

found  in  the  possession  of  the  suspect.  It  is  in  this  context  that  the 

failure to state the exact place of recovery had been adverted to.   

Page 3 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0365-24 

6.  In the present application, the suspect was arrested on 02.08.2023 by 

a group of officers from the Negombo Police. According to the B Report 

dated 02.08.2023 (P-1), the suspect had been arrested around 11.25am 

and Methamphetamine (a packet of ice) is alleged to have been found 

when he was searched. The gross weight of which is 46.3 grammes.  

7.  However,  according to  the  petitioner,  the  suspect  was  arrested  at  his 

house at Dollar Rosa Mawatha, Pallansena. It is alleged that a group of 

police  officers  had  come  into  their  house  and  questioned  and  the 

suspect  who  was  in  the  house  is  said  to  have  got  into  an  altercation 

with  the  police  and  then  the  police  had  taken  the  accused.  It  is  the 

position of the petitioner that the said narcotics were introduced at the 

police station after being so taken.  According to the B Report, there is 

a sum of Rs. 26,990.00 entered in P.R. 2720/23. The petitioner claims 

that suspect had the said money of Rs. 27,000.00 in his wallet. As for 

the pending cases, it is admitted that the suspect is the 2nd accused in 

HC/624/19 pending in the High Court of Colombo. It is also admitted 

that he had been out on bail for the said matter since 12.06.2023.  

8.  The respondents have not filed objections in this matter. However, the 

learned State Counsel appearing for the respondents submitted that he 

is  informed  that  the  IBs  are  in  the  process  of  being  forwarded  to  the 

Attorney  General  but  is  yet  to  be  received.  The  suspect  had  been  in 

remand for one year and two months. Admittedly, the suspect had been 

on bail for a similar offence and he has obtained bail on 12.06.2023. 

Within  two  months  thereof  on  02.08.2023,  the  suspect  is  once  again 

apprehended for the similar offence. No doubt, the fact that a person 

on bail committing a similar offence is a relevant matter in considering 

application  for  bail.  This  is  relevant  as  this  is  clear  evidence  of 

reoffending.  It  is  a  notorious  fact  that  narcotics  offences  due  to  its 

unique nature is a crime that has the potential of making considerable 

profit. This factor singularly is an incentive and the reason for persons 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0365-24 

to reoffend. In the present application what is significant is that he is 

alleged to have reoffended within two months of his release on bail. 

9.  B Report marked P-1 is certainly an extremely concise report. It merely 

narrates that the police officers were engaged in a raid on information 

when  the  suspect  was  identified  and  arrested  around  11.25am.  It  is 

true that the exact place from which the packet of narcotics alleged to 

have been recovered is not stated. As to the exact environment or place 

in which the arrest took place is also not stated in detail. In this context 

it  is  not  possible  to ascertain  from  the B  Report  as  to  the  location  of 

arrest, ie; if it was in a house or on a road or if the possession referred 

to  is  physical  and  actual  possession  or  otherwise.  This  becomes 

relevant  specially  as  the  petitioner  alleges  that  the  arrest  was  in  the 

house and that it was an introduction. Apart from this initial B Report, 

it is also alleged that no further-reports have been submitted to Court. 

Then to cap it all, the respondents have failed and not filed any written 

objection in this count either.    

10. In  the  above  scenario,  this  Court  is  left  only  with  the  petition,  the 

petitioner’s averments and documents  as to  the facts.  As for the first 

ground the failure to specify the exact place from which the narcotics 

was found becomes relevant as there is an allegation of an introduction. 

In  that  context  when  the  exact  place  from  which  the  narcotics  were 

seized is not stated it gives credence to the allegation of introduction. 

This as I see is nothing but a rule of common sense and logic. In the 

normal course, the place from which the offending item was recovered 

is a relevant fact that one would naturally include in the information 

transmitted to a Magistrate by a B Report. This is somewhat of a basic 

fact. The failure to mention this basic fact may inferentially amount to 

the officers not being certain as to where it was recovered from. This is 

a situation that may arise if an introduction is made as alleged. It is in 

this context that Justice Abrew had determined as aforesaid. There is 

no mandatory requirement to so specify the exact place of recovery in 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0365-24 

the B report. But the failure may give credence to an allegation of an 

introduction in the absence of any other material to the contrary. It is 

this doubt created on the police version that becomes exceptional.   

11. As  stated  above,  the  suspect  had  been  on  bail  for  a  similar  offence. 

However,  this  becomes  relevant  as  it  is  an  indicator  of  a  reoffending. 

This aspect would be negatived if the subsequent instance appears to 

be  an  introduction.  Accordingly,  the  failure  to  mention  the  exact 

physical  location  of  recovery  considered  along  with  the  failure  to 

institute  action  for  one  year  and  two  months,  in  my  view,  can 

cumulatively be considered as exceptional. This is specially  so as the 

respondents  have  totally  failed  to  explain  this  delay.  In  the  above 

circumstances, the suspect is enlarged on bail subject to the following 

conditions; 

1.  cash bail in a sum of Rs. 500,000.00;  

2.  to provide two sureties who should execute bonds to the value of 

Rs. 1,000,000.00 each and one of the sureties should be a close 

relative of the accused-petitioner; 

3.  Sureties  are  required  to  provide  certificates  from  the  Grama 

Sevaka from the respective residential areas of such sureties; 

4.  to surrender the Passport or any travel document of the petitioner 

if  he  has  any,  to  the  Registrar  of  the  Magistrate’s  Court  of 

Negombo;  

5.  to report to the Officer-in-Charge of the Vice Prevention Unit of the 

Headquarters  police  Negombo  on  the  second  and  last  Sunday  of 

every month before 12 noon; 

6.  further, a travel ban is imposed until the final determination of this 

matter  and  the  Registrar  is  directed  to  inform  the  Controller  of 

Immigration and Emigration of this order for necessary action; and  

12. This application is accordingly allowed and the Registrar of this Court is 

directed to transmit a copy of this order to the Registrar of the Magistrate’s 

Page 6 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Court of Negombo and the Officer-in-Charge of the Vice Prevention Unit 

of the Headquarters police Negombo. 

BAL-0365-24 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 7 of 7 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
