IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for 
intervention as ‘Respondent’ in Writ 
application CA Writ 306/2023. 

In the matter of an application for mandates 
in the nature of Writs of Mandamus and 
Certiorari in terms of Article 140 of the 
Constitution 

Upali De Silva  
No. 06, Ediriweera Avenue 
Dehiwala  

Petitioner 

Case No: CA Writ 306/2023 

Vs 
1. 

SI Pathiraja, 
Officer-in-Charge 
Special Crimes Investigation Bureau 
Batticaloa 

2.  Hon. Attorney General 

Attorney General’s Department 
Colombo-12 

3. 

Balasingham Saranaraj, 
Registrar 
District Court of Batticaloa  
Batticaloa 

Respondent 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Mr. Mahathevan Muralitharan 
No. 07-4/3, Collinwood Place 
Colombo-06 

Intervenient-Petitioner 

Upali De Silva  
No. 06, Ediriweera Avenue 
Dehiwala 

Petitioner-Respondent 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

SI Pathiraja, 
Officer-in-Charge 
Special Crimes Investigation Bureau 
Batticaloa 

2.  Hon. Attorney General 

Attorney General’s Department 
Colombo-12 

3. 

Balasingham Saranaraj, 
Registrar 
District Court of Batticaloa  
Batticaloa 

Respondent-Respondents 

Before: 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

Damith Thotawatte, J. 

Counsel 

Upul Jayasooriya, PC with P. Radhakrishnan and Dilshi 
Wickramasinghe instructed by Sarath Walgamage for the 
Petitioner. 
Azard Navavi, SDSG for the 1st -3rd Respondents. 
Heijaaz Hizbullah with Piyumi Senevirathne for the Intervenient-
Petitioner. 

Written 
submissions 
tendered on: 

08-05-2025 By the Intervenient-Petitioner 
20-05-2025 By the Petitioner 

Order Delivered on:  30-05-2025 

D. Thotawatte, J. 

The  Petitioner-Respondent,  hereinafter  mentioned  as  the  Petitioner,  had  been  the 
defendant  in  D.C.  Batticaloa  Case  No.  M/9736/2013.  The  trial  has  proceeded  ex  parte 
against the Petitioner due to his nonappearance, and at the conclusion, an ex parte decree 
had been served on the Petitioner. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Petitioner had thereafter filed an application to vacate the said order, and during that 
inquiry the Hon. District Judge being of the view that an averment in an affidavit tendered 
by the Petitioner is false, had ordered Registrar of the court to make a complaint to the 
Police.   

The Police thereafter instituted action in the Magistrate Court of Batticaloa, against the 
Petitioner on a charge of contempt of Court under Case No. B/646/2022. The Petitioner 
has filed case No. CA Writ 306/2023 challenging the legality of an investigation initiated on 
the basis of alleged contempt of the District Court. 

The Intervenient-Petitioner, being the Plaintiff in the civil action, asserts that the issue of 
the false statement by the Petitioner, if unaddressed, may prejudice his legal position and, 
as such that he should be allowed to intervene in case No. CA Writ 306/2023. 

The Intervenient-Petitioner seeks to intervene, asserting inter alia: 

  That he is a “victim of crime” under the Assistance to and Protection of Victims and 

Witnesses of Crime Act No. 10 of 2023; 

  That his rights and reputation will be directly affected by the outcome of this writ 

application; 

  That principles of natural justice entitle him to be heard. 

It is observed that the relief sought in  the writ application is  against the institution and 
continuation  of  criminal  proceedings  before  the  Magistrate’s  Court  of  Batticaloa.  The 
challenge  in  case  No.  CA  Writ  306/2023  is  based  on  a  jurisdictional  objection  that  the 
Magistrate’s Court lacks competence to entertain a charge of contempt of a District Court. 
It is argued that under the Judicature Act. As such, this issue lies entirely within the domain 
of statutory interpretation and of judicial power. 

The  Intervenient-Petitioner  is  not  a  complainant  or  a  witness  in  the  case  before  the 
Magistrate’s Court of Batticaloa. No material has been placed before this Court to establish 
that the Intervenient-Petitioner is a necessary party in those proceedings. 

The writ application does not seek any relief against the District Court decree obtained by 
the  Intervenient-Petitioner.  That  decree  remains  unchallenged  and  unaffected  by  the 
present  proceedings.  Thus,  the  Intervenient-Petitioner’s  assertion  of  prejudice 
is 
speculative and not based on direct legal consequences flowing from the grant or refusal 
of relief in this case. 

The  Intervenient-Petitioner’s  reliance  on  the  Assistance  to  and  Protection  of  Victims  of 
Crime and Witnesses Act is also misplaced. While the Act recognizes certain participatory 
rights in criminal proceedings, it does not confer a right to intervene in a judicial review 

3 

 
proceeding before this Court, initiated to challenge the legality of police or prosecutorial 
conduct.  

In Rawaya Publishers and Others v. Wijedasa Rajapakse1, it was held that, “in the context 
of writ applications, a necessary party is one without whom no order can be effectively 
made.”  On  the  material  submitted,  the  Intervenient-Petitioner  does  not  meet  this 
threshold. 

In Abayadeera And 162 Others V. Dr, Stanley Wiijesundera, Vice Chancellor University of 
Colombo and Another2 and in subsequent cases, it has been affirmed that a necessary party 
would be a party whose rights are directly impacted by an order in that particular case. 
However, the Intervenient-Petitioner has failed to establish any direct legal impact from 
an order in case No. CA Writ 306/2023 on his civil claim or rights. 

The  application  to  intervene  is  without  sufficient  legal  foundation,  and  accordingly,  the 
application for intervention is refused without costs. 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

I agree     

   Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

1(2001) 3 Sri.LR 213 
2 (1983) 2 Sri. LR 267 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
