     IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
SRI LANKA 

In the  matter of  an application for  Revision 
and/or  Restitutio  in  Integrum  under  Article 
138  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

CA Case No: CA (RII) 92/2024 
District Court of Anuradhapura 
Case No. 21864/L 

Welikande Gedara Lalith Bandara, 
No. 530, Kokawewa, 
Getalawa 

                    Plaintiff 

Vs. 

Jayathilakage Rohana Jayathilake of  
No. 136, Kahatagasdigiliya Road,  
Galenbindunuwewa 

        Defendant 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Jayathilakage Rohana Jayathilake of  
No. 136, Kahatagasdigiliya Road,  

                                                                                    Galenbindunuwewa 

               Defendant- Petitioner 

Vs. 

                                                                                   Welikande Gedara Lalith Bandara, 
                                                                                   No.530 , Kokawewa,  
                                                                                   Getalawa. 

                                       Plaintiff- Respondent  

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before:  

    R. Gurusinghe J.   

  &  

M.C.B.S. Morais J. 

Counsel:  

Ms. Amindika Rathnayaka for the Defendant-Petitioner. 

Sandamal Rajapaksha for the Plaintiff- Respondent. 

Supported on:                             21.02.2025 

Decided On:                               03.04.2025 

ORDER 

M.C.B.S. Morais J. 

This  is  an  application  for  revision  and  or  restitutio  in  intergrum  under  Article  138  of  the 

constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

In  the  instant  matter  the  Petitioner  is  challenging  the  order  dated  24th  of  October  2007  of  the 

District Court of Anuradhapura delivered in case bearing No.21864/L. 

Due to the absence of the Petitioner at the trial an exparte decision was delivered in favor of the 
Respondent  on  24th  of  October  2007  to  eject  the  Petitioner  from  the  land  described  in  the 

schedule to the plaint. However, it is the contention of the Petitioner that the transfer documents 

related to the said property  are fraudulent  as, one Mr. M. Susantha Udaya Kumara Disanayaka 

has  pleaded  guilty  of  Fraud  in  2023.  The  Petitioner  also  states  that  the  appeals  made  to  the 

Provincial High Court of Civil Appeal and Supreme Court were prior to the termination of case 

No.7433  at  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Anuradhapura  against  Mr.Susantha  Udaya  Kumara 

Disananyaka. 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, having considered the submissions and the materials presented to this court on behalf 

of the Petitioner, we are of the view that there is a prima facie case to be looked into. 

Notice should be issued to the Respondent as per Prayer “a” of the Petition. 

R. Gurusinghe J.   

I agree 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
