CA/HCC/0162/22 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an Appeal made under     

Section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal 

Procedure Act No.15 of 1979 read with 

Article  138  of  the  Constitution  of  the 

Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 

Lanka. 

Court of Appeal No: 

CA/HCC/0162/2022                    Weerappa Sidren alias Suren     

High Court of Colombo  

Case No: HC/329/2017                                       ACCUSED-APPELLANT 

Vs. 

The Hon. Attorney General  

Attorney General's Department 

Colombo-12 

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT 

BEFORE 

: 

Sampath B. Abayakoon, J. 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

COUNSEL                    :  

Punarji Karunasekara, for theAppellant. 

Madhava  Tennakoon,  DSG 

for 

the 

Respondent. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

28/05/2024 

DECIDED ON 

:   

27/08/2024  

****************************** 

          JUDGMENT 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

The  above-named  Accused-Appellant  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 

Appellant) was indicted in the High Court of Colombo under Section 296 of 

the  Penal  Code  for  committing  the  murder  of  Sathasivam  Sri  Priya  on  or 

about 31st July 2015. 

The  trial  commenced  before  the  High  Court  Judge  of  Colombo  as  the 

Appellant  had  opted  for  a  non-jury  trial.  After  the  conclusion  of  the 

prosecution case, the learned High Court Judge had called for the defence 

and the Appellant had made a dock statement. After considering the evidence 

presented by both parties, the learned High Court Judge had convicted the 

Appellant as charged and sentenced him to death on 06/09/2022. 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

Being  aggrieved  by  the  aforesaid  conviction  and  sentence  the  Appellant 

preferred this appeal to this court.     

The  Learned  Counsel  for  the  Appellants  informed  this  court  that  the 

Appellants have given consent to argue this matter in his absence. Also, at 

the time of argument the Appellant was connected via Zoom platform from 

prison. 

Background of the Case. 

According to PW1, Sathyasri is the daughter of the deceased. She was around 

7  years  old  when  she  witnessed  the  gruesome  incident.  On  the  date  of 

incident, in the morning PW1 and her deceased mother had gone to a nearby 

Hindu  temple  to  engage  in  religious  activities.  After  completing  such 

activities, both had gone to a nearby hotel to have something to eat. After 

having food, they had returned home, gone upstairs, and relaxed by playing 

video games. PW1 had then left the house to play with neighboring children. 

As she was leaving the house she had seen PW3, a person who was boarding 

in the deceased’s house sleeping on the floor. When PW1 went out a neighbor 

had  called  her  to  bring  a  jug  to  take  some  ‘Payasam’  which  is  a  desert 

prepared  in  Tamil  homes.  When  she  returned  home  to  get  a  jug,  she  had 

noticed  that  the  door  of  the  house  was  open  and  that  the  Appellant  was 

standing on the staircase calling the deceased to come downstairs. When the 

deceased obliged and came down, the Appellant had slapped the deceased 

and making the deceased to fall on the ground. The Appellant had then gone 

out of the house, brought a knife and had dealt several blows on the legs, 

hands, abdomen and chest of the deceased mercilessly. The deceased called 

her mother three times before going silent. The Appellant had then kept his 

hand near the nose of the deceased and checked whether the deceased was 

breathing. Although PW1 hid behind a  curtain near the sink of the house 

out  of  fear,  she  could  see  the  entire  episode  very  clearly.  Then  PW1  had 

managed  to  run  to  the  nearby  boutique  and  informed  the  incident  to  her 

grandmother  PW2.  When  she  came  back  with  PW2,  they  had  seen  the 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

deceased lying on the ground in a pool of blood. When PW1 ran out, she had 

seen the Appellant running out of the deceased’s house.  

PW2, Krishnaveni had taken the deceased to the Colombo General Hospital 

with  the  assistance  of  the  neighbors  and  the  police  but  the  deceased  had 

succumbed to her injuries around 6.00pm. PW3, Bairavi had also witnessed 

the Appellant stabbing the deceased using a knife. 

The Appellant had surrendered to police on 02.08.2015 through a lawyer. A 

blood-stained knife was recovered upon the statement of the Appellant. The 

recovery  of  the  knife  was  witnessed  by  a  person  called  Ariyaratne.  The 

deceased had suffered 20 stab injuries and 19 cut injuries on the upper and 

lower  limbs  and  the  chest.  According  to  PW10,  the  JMO  the  death  was 

caused due to multiple stab injuries to the chest and abdomen.  

Being satisfied that the prosecution had made out a prima facie case against 

the  Appellant,  the  Learned  Trial  Judge  had  called  for  the  defence.  The 

Appellant  had  made  a  statement  from  the  dock  and  closed  his  case.  The 

learned  High  Court  Judge  had  sentenced  the  Appellant  to  death  on 

06/09/2022. 

The Appellant had filed the following grounds of appeal. 

1.  The  learned  trial  Judge  has  failed  to  properly  analyze  the 

contradiction  of  whether  PW1  was  observing  the  murder  incident 

while she was staying under the sink or while standing away from 

the sink. 

2.  The learned trial Judge has failed to analyze that the crucial parts of 

PW1’s  testimony  are  not  independent  and  ex  mero  motu  given 

evidence  as  the  same  have  been  suggested  by  the  prosecution 

unnecessarily.  

3.  The  learned  trial  judge  has  erroneously  analyzed  that  it  has  been 

proven that there was a dispute as the deceased had made a tip off/ 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

information  against  a  family  member  of  the  Appellant  which  had 

ultimately resulted as a motive for this offence committed.  

4.  The learned trial Judge has failed to analyze that all the witnesses 

have failed to identify the knife that was marked as P1 and it is not 

correct  to  mark  the  same  via  PW1  since  she  had  stated  she  was 

unable to witness the same properly at the time of the incident.   

Considering  the  grounds  of  appeal  raised  by  the  Appellant,  it  is  apparent 

that grounds are inter related to each other. Hence, I decided to consider all 

the grounds jointly hereinafter. 

In this case PW1 was 07 years old when he witnessed the gruesome incident. 

When he gave evidence in the High Court, he was 10 years old. 

In Ranjeet Kumar Ram v. State of Bihar [2015] SCC Online SC 500 the 

court held that: 

“Evidence of the child witness and its credibility would depend upon the 

circumstances of each case. Only precaution which the court has to bear 

in  mind  while  assessing  the  evidence  of  a  child  witness  is  that  the 

witness must be a reliable one”.  

In  this  case  PW1  and  PW3  are  eye  witnesses.  Hence,  admissibility  of  the 

evidence of an eye witness needs to be discussed very clearly. 

Eyewitness  testimony  is  one  of  the  most  important  kinds  of  criminal 

evidence. In criminal cases, the judges regularly face the difficult but crucial 

task  of  evaluating  eyewitness  testimony.  This  sometimes  means  checking 

whether  the  witness’s  story  fits  with  other  established  facts  of  the  case. 

However, the veracity of such a story cannot always be verified or falsified 

directly.  In  such  cases  judges  will  have  to  look  at  whether  the  statement 

comes from a reliable source.  

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

Further, an eyewitness’s testimony is probably the most persuasive form of 

evidence  presented  in  court,  but  in  many  cases,  its  accuracy  is  dubious. 

There  is  also  precedent  that  erroneous  eyewitness  evidence  can  lead  to 

wrongful convictions sending people to prison for years or decades, even to 

death row, for crimes they did not commit.  

When considering the evidence of an eye witness, the Court should look at 

the demeanour of the witness, the inherent probability of the account, any 

internal inconsistencies in the account, whether the account is consistent 

with previous statements by the witness, whether the witness has any bias 

against the accused or any family or group to which the accused belongs, 

whether the evidence at the crime scene supports the account, and whether 

the  witness’s  testimony  is  supported  by  the  testimony  of  other  witnesses. 

These factors are very important as the burden of proof is on the prosecution 

in all criminal cases. 

In The Queen v K.A. Santin Sangho 65 NLR 447 the court held that: 

“It is fundamental that the burden is on the prosecution. Whether the evidence 

the prosecution relies on is direct or circumstantial, the burden is the same.  

This burden is not altered by the failure of the appellant to give evidence and 

explain the circumstances. 

The credibility of the witness does not stand impeached merely by proving 

contradictions  on  record.  It  is  required  for  the  defence  side  to  show  that 

prosecution  witnesses  may  deliberately  depose  change  or  improve  their 

original  statement  in  order  to  cause  prejudice  to  the  accused.  Similarly, 

minor omission or discrepancy in evidence is not enough to hold the accused 

not guilty. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

The learned High Court Judge had very extensively analysed the evidence of 

PW1 and PW3 and considered the contradictions and omission and decided 

to  accept  their  evidence  as  true  in  this  case.  The  relevant  portion  of  the 

judgment is re-produced below: 

Pages 269-270 of the breief. 

uq,skau isoaêh iïnkaOfhka fuu kvqfõ me' id' 01 idlaIshg le`ojd we;s w;r weh idlaIs 

foñka fuu isoaêfhka ñh .sfha ;u uj jk nj;a isoaêh isÿ jQ osk ijia ld,fha iji 3 

g muK ;ud iy ;u uj ksjfia isáh oS pQos; meñK ;u ksjfia mâfmf<a Wvu ;Ügqfõ 

isá  nj;a  ;ud  Tyq  ñka  fmr  isg  y`ÿkk  nj;a  tfia  y`ÿkkqfha  pQos;f.a  mjqf,a  wh  l=vq 

úlsKSu  iïnkaOfhka  ;u  ñh  .sh  uj  iS'  whs'  ã'  tlg  w,a,,d  ÿkak  yskaod  jk  nj;a 

pQos;f.a whshd ta wkqj udi 3 la ysf¾ isá nj;a Tyq ysf¾ isg meñK ;u wdÉÑg ;¾ckh 

lr nj wdÉÑ ksjig meñK mejiQ nj;a pQos; meñK ;u ujg Wia yäka l;d l< nj;a 

Bg ;ud ìh ù ksjfia l=iaisfha iskala tl hg ie`.jqKq nj;a ál fj,djlska ;u ñh.sh 

uj mäfmf<ka my<g meñKs úg pQos; wehf.a lkg .yf.k .yf.k hkq ;ud ÿgq nj;a 

bka miqj pQos; wf;a ;snqKq msysfhka ñh .sh ;u ujg wek f.k wek f.k .sh nj;a tu 

msys myrj,a wehf.a mmqjg" nvg" ll=,g yeu;ekgu wekak nj;a uj lE.eiQ nj;a ta 

jk úg uj ìu jeà isá nj;a pQos; my;a ù ujf.a kyh wi,g w; ;shd neÆ nj;a ;ud 

pQos; Yíoh wefiaú hehs is;d ;u mdoi,ka o .,jd oeuQ nj;a bka miq ksjfia fodfrka msg 

ù wdÉÑ isá lvhg .sh nj;a wdÉÑf.a lvhg wdikakhg f.dia ;u ksji foi n,k úg 

pQos; ;u f.j,a me;af;a isg ÿjkjd ÿgq nj;a wdÉÑ iu`. ksjig tkúg uj ìu jeà isá 

nj;a bka miq wdÉÑ fmd,Sishg f.dia meñKs,s lr we;s nj;a wjg isá wh tl;=j ;%Sfrdao 

r:hlska ;u uj frday,g /f.k .sh nj;a mjid isáhs' 

Pages 272-273 of the brief. 

bka miq me'id' 3 idlaIshg le`ojd we;s w;r weh idlaIs foñka ;u ñh .sh wehf.a ksjfia 

mj;ajd f.k .sh fndaäfï ;ud kej;S isá nj;a isoaêh jQ osk ñh.sh whf.a oshKsh ñh 

.sh wh yd ;ud tu isoaêh jQ ksjfia isá nj;a isoaêh jk úg ;ud ksod f.k isá nj;a 

;ud Wv ;Ügqfõ ksod f.k isá úg lsishï flfkl= Wv ;Ügqjg meñK ñh .sh whg l;d 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

lr my<g tlaldf.k .sh nj;a ál  fj,djlska ñh .sh wh l;d lrñka isg fl`osrs .dk 

y`vla weiqk nj;a ta wkqj ;ud m,af,ydg f.dia n,k úg tu Wv ;Ügqjg meñKs flkd 

ñh .sh flkdg msysfhka wkskjd ÿgq nj;a Tyq f.dvla ierhla msysfhka wekak nj;a bka 

miq Tyq t<shg mek osõj nj;a ñh .sh whg msysfhka wekafka pQos; nj ;ud y`ÿkd .ekSfï 

fmrÜgqjloS  ;ud  úiska  y`ÿkd  .;a  nj;a  isoaêh  oek  .ekSfuka  miqj  ksjig  meñKs  wh 

pQos;f.a ku iqf¾ka nj mejiQ nj;a mjid isà' 

Pages 278 of the brief. 

me'id' 01 yd me'id' 03 f.a idlaIsj, iq¿ mriamr;djhka ú;a;sh úiska yria m%Yak ke`.Sfï 

oS u;= lr we;s w;r" úfYaIfhka me'id' 01 tu wjia:dfõ isá ia:dkh ms<sn`oj yria m%Yak 

k`.d ielhla we;s lsrSug W;aiy f.k we;s nj fmfka' fuysoS me'id' 01 i;Hd hk wh 

úiska weh l=iaisfha iskala tl hg b`o f.k isá njg fmd,sia ia:dkhg oS we;s m%ldYh jeros 

nj  ms<sf.k  we;'    tfiau  wod<  wjia:dfõoS  mdidhï  kï  fohla  .ekSu  i`oyd  .sh  nj 

fmd,sia  ia:dkhg  m%ldY  lr  fkd;sîu  weh  mdoi<U  .e,  jQ  wjia:dfõ  oS  isá  ia:dkh 

ms<sn`oj jQ .eg¿jo ú;a;sh yria m%Yak u`.ska wjOdkhg fhduq lr we;'  kuq;a tu .eg¿ 

mej;sho wef.a idlaIsh ú;a;sfha yria m%Yak u`.ska ì`o jeà fkdue;s nj me' id' 01 yd 

03 f.a idlaIs iuia:hla f,i i<ld ne,SfïoS ;yjqre fõ' 

Although motive is not necessary to be proved in a criminal trial, existence 

of a motive would strengthen the prosecution case. In this case the evidence 

revealed  that  the  deceased  had  given  information  about  a  drug  business 

carried out by a family member of the Appellant. This was revealed from the 

evidence of PW1 and PW2.  

The  defence  had  marked  contradictions  and  omissions  on  the  evidence  of 

PW1. As those contradictions are not forceful enough to create a doubt on 

the prosecution case, the rejection of those contradictions has not caused 

any prejudice to the Appellants. Further, none of the witnesses are expected 

give 100% accurate evidence in a trial. 

8 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

In State of Uttar Pradesh v. M. K. Anthony [AIR 1985 SC 48] the court held 

that: 

“While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach must 

be whether the evidence of the witness read as a whole appears 

to  have  a  ring  of  truth.  Once  that  impression  is  formed,  it  is 

undoubtedly  necessary  for  the  court  to  scrutinise  the  evidence 

more  particularly  keeping  in  view  the  deficiencies,  draw-backs 

and  infirmities  pointed  out  in  the  evidence  as  a  whole  and 

evaluate them to find out whether it is against the general tenor 

of  the  evidence  given  by  the  witness  and  whether  the  earlier 

evaluation of the evidence is shaken as to render it unworthy of 

belief. Minor discrepancies on trivial matters not touching the core 

of  the  case,  hyper-technical  approach  by  taking  sentences  torn 

out  of  context  here  or  there  from  the  evidence,  attaching 

importance to some technical error committed by the investigating 

officer  not  going  to  the  root  of  the  matter  would  not  ordinarily 

permit rejection of the evidence as a whole.  …Even honest and 

truthful  witnesses  may  differ  in  some  details  unrelated  to  the 

main  incident  because  power  of  observation,  retention  and 

reproduction  differ  with  individuals.  Cross  examination  is  an 

unequal duel between a rustic and refined lawyer.” 

Further  the  evidence  given  by  PW1  and  PW3  is  well  corroborated  by  each 

other  regarding  inflicting  injuries  to  the  deceased.  Both  had  seen  the 

Appellant  dealing  a  number  of  blows  with  a  knife  before  he  left  the  place. 

PW1 went on to further say that the Appellant had kept his hand close to her 

mother’s nose to ensure whether the deceased was breathing. The injuries 

sustained  by  the  deceased  and  the  conduct  of  the  Appellant  had  clearly 

9 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

established that the Appellant had only intended to kill the deceased as she 

was an obstacle for their smooth running of drug business. 

The evidence given by the lay witnesses had very well tallied with the medical 

evidence pertaining to the injuries inflicted on the deceased. 

The  learned  High  Court  Judge  had  considered  and  analyzed  the  evidence 

accurately  even  though  he  did  not  have  the  advantage  of  seeing  the 

demeanour and deportment of the eye witnesses. 

As  the  prosecution  had  presented  overwhelming  evidence  against  the 

Appellant, it is not correct to say that the  prosecution  had not proved the 

case against the Appellant beyond reasonable grounds.   

In this case a knife had been recovered upon the statement of the Appellant 

under Section 27(1) of the Evidence Ordinance. 

Ordinarily, a statement made by an accused person is inadmissible against 

him. As exception to this rule is the admissibility of statement under Section 

27(1) of the Evidence Ordinance where a portion of a statement made to a 

police officer and which leads to the discovery of a fact can be led in evidence. 

In  this  case,  after  receiving  information  a  team  of  police  officers  had 

conducted  investigations,  arrested  the  Appellant,  and  recovered  a  knife 

based upon his statement under Section 27(1) of the Evidence Ordinance. 

PW1 in her evidence stated that the Appellant used a similar knife to inflict 

injuries to her mother. 

Upon recovery of the knife, it was sent to the Government Analyst for DNA 

testing. According to PW11, the Government Analyst, deceased’s blood had 

been identified on the knife which had been marked as P1 in the trial.   

Given the reasons above, I conclude that leading investigation evidence and 

marking recovery done under Section 27(1) of Evidence Ordinance through  

10 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

PW1 is not improper and has not occasioned any prejudice to the Appellant 

in this case. 

The  prosecution  had  led  firm  evidence  that  the  Appellant  had  come  there 

armed  with  a  knife.  This  evidence  was  not  contradicted  in  the  trial.  Even 

though PW1 was not certain about the identity of the knife, it is not capable 

of  creating  a  doubt  on  the  overwhelming  evidence  presented  by  the 

prosecution. Hence acceptance of prosecution evidence has not occasioned 

a failure of justice in this case. 

The single most important criterion in evaluating the fairness of a trial is the 

observance of the principle of equality of arms between the defence and the 

prosecution. Equality of arms, which must be observed throughout the trial, 

means that both parties are treated in a manner ensuring their procedurally 

equal position during the course of the trial. 

In  this  case  the  learned  High  Court  Judge  had  considered  the  evidence 

presented by both parties to arrive at his decision. He has properly analyzed 

the evidence given by both sides in his judgment. As the evidence adduced 

by  the  Appellant  failed  to  create  a  doubt  over  the  prosecution  case,  the 

conclusion reached by the learned High Court Judge in this case cannot be 

faulted. Therefore, I reject the grounds of appeal urged by the Appellant in 

this case. 

As discussed under the grounds of appeal  advanced by the Appellant, the 

prosecution  had  adduced  strong  and  incriminating  evidence  against  the 

Appellant.  The  learned  High  Court  Judge  had  accurately  analyzed  all  the 

evidence presented by all the parties and come to a precise finding that the 

Appellant is guilty of committing the murder of the deceased in this case. 

11 | P a g e  

 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
CA/HCC/0162/22 

Therefore, I affirm the conviction and dismiss the Appeal of the Appellant. 

The  Registrar  is  directed  to  send  this  judgement  to  the  High  Court  of 

Colombo along with the original case record. 

Sampath B. Abayakoon, J.   

I agree 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

12 | P a g e  

 
 
 
             
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
