CA Bail 374-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for 

Bail in terms of Section 83(2) of the 

Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs  (Amendment)Act  No  41  of 

2022.  

Court of Appeal  No:    

       1.Officer-in-Charge 

CA Bail /0374/2024 

Police Narcotics Bureau,  

Egoda Uyana. 

MC Moratuwa                               2.Officer-in-Charge 

Case No. 3592/2023 

         Anti-Vice Striking Unit, 

Walana. 

                             COMPLAINANTS 

        Vs. 

Thelge Priyanthi Pieris 

(Presently in Remand Prison) 

SUSPECT 

NOW AND BETWEEN 

Sumanaseeli Fernando 

48, Sugathadharmadhara Camp, 

Egoda Uyana, Moratuwa. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 374-2024 

Vs. 

1.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Police Narcotics Bureau, 

Egoda Uyana.   

2.  Officer-in-Charge 

Anti Vice Striking Unit, 

Walana. 

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENTS 

3.  The Attorney General 

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

                                                      RESPONDENT 

    Thelge Priyanthi Pieris 

    (Presently in Remand Prison).  

BEFORE                    :  

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

R.P.Hettiarachchi, J. 

    SUSPECT 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    
 
     
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 374-2024 

COUNSEL                    : 

Vindiya Ekanayake for the Petitioner.  

Jehan  Gunasekara,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

30/04/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

28/05/2025. 

***************************** 

                                            ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The  Petitioner  is  the  sister  of  the  Suspect  in  the  Moratuwa  Magistrate 

Court Case No. B 3592/2023. 

On  29.11.2023,  the  Suspect  was  arrested  at  Moratuwa  by  officers 

attached  to  the  Anti-Vice  Striking  Unit,  Walana  upon  an  allegation 

relating  to  possession  of  gross  quantity  of  46.630  grams  of 

Methamphetamine. 

The  suspect  was  produced  and  facts  were  reported  to  the  Moratuwa 

Magistrate  under  Section  54A  (b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984. 

The production had been sent to the Government Analyst Department on 

30/11/2023. After analysis, the Government Analyst had forwarded the 

report to the Moratuwa Magistrate Court. According to the Government 

Analyst,  18.53  grams  of  pure  Methamphetamine  had  been  detected  in 

the substance. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
CA Bail 374-2024 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of the Bail Application.  

1.  The Suspect denies all allegation levelled against her. 

2.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for more than 9 months 

now. 

3.  The Suspect’s is a married person with one child. 

4.  Family  members  of  the  Suspect  are  undergoing  many  hardships 

due to the fact that she is in remand custody for a time period.   

The learned State Counsel submitted that the delay is not an exceptional 

circumstance to be considered to enlarge the Suspect on bail. Further, 

he  submits  that  the  time  spent  for  preparing  the  indictment  does  not 

constitute an exceptional circumstance.  

The Suspect is in remand custody for about 18 months as at today.  

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what is 

exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 374-2024 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production by the Government Analyst is 18.53 grams. Hence, this court 

has jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

In  this  case,  as  per  the  submission  of  the  Learned  State  Counsel,  the 

dossier of investigations has been received by the Attorney General and 

was considered under AG reference No. CR3/100/2025. At present, the 

indictment against the Suspect has been forwarded to the relevant High 

Court. 

I agree with the learned State Counsel that the factual and evidentiary 

matters pertain to the investigations can only be tested at the trial upon 

the witnesses being cross examined and shall not be tested at the time of 

hearing this bail application considering the nature of this case. 

In the Petition, the Petitioner had not disclosed any previous or pending 

case registered against the Suspect. 

The  learned  State  Counsel  in  his  submission  had  disclosed  three 

previous  convictions  and  two  are  connected  to  possession  of  narcotics 

were  registered  against  the  Suspect.  In  one  matter  the  Suspect  was 

charged for possession of 1900 milligrams of Heroin and 2400 narcotic 

tablets. This is a clear testament that the Suspect had been involving in 

drugs for a long period of time. The drugs pertaining to this application 

was found hidden in her brassier and this indicates that the Suspect is 

a  drug  dealer.  Hence,  I  do  not  consider  the  delay  about  18  months  in 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 374-2024 

remand  falls  into  the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay 

considering the circumstances of this case. 

The  Offence  under  Section  54A(b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is a 

serious offence and the seriousness of the offence should be considered 

when bail is considered.  

In  this  case  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  is  18.53 

grams,  which  certainly  a  commercial  quantity.  Considering  the 

seriousness  of  the  sentence  prescribed  under  the  Poison,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, there is a high risk of absconding.   

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of  Methamphetamine  detected,  previous  cases  reported  against  the 

Suspect and other circumstances of the case, I consider this is not the 

appropriate time to grant bail to the Suspect. 

Hence, this bail application is dismissed. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  send  this  Bail  Order  to  the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Moratuwa  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police 

Narcotics  Bureau,  Egoda  Uyana  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Anti-Vice 

Striking Unit, Walana. 

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
