IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application in the nature of 
Writ  of  Certiorari,  Mandamus  and  Prohibition 
under  and  in  terms  of  Article  140  of  the 
the  Democratic  Socialist 
Constitution  of 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 
CA/WRT/0461/2023 

2.  Mayakaduwa Gei Gamunu 
Krishantha Mayakaduwa, 
344, 
Pituwalahena, 
Mayakaduwa, 
Imaduwa. 

6.  Manathunga Muhandirange 
Dharma Sri Wickremasinge, 
C 54/2, 
Makoora, Kotiyakumbura. 

Petitioners 

Vs. 

1.  B. K. Prabath Chandrakeerthi, 
Commissioner General of Labour 
Department of Labour 
Colombo 5. 

       1A.  H.K.K.A. Jayasundara,  

Commissioner General of Labour (Acting) 
Department of Labour 
Colombo 05.  

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 1 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Maga Neguma Road 

Construction Equipment 
Company (Pvt) Ltd., 
No.81/4,New Nuge Road, 
Peliyagoda, 
Sri Lanka. 

3.  Dr. Bandula Gunawardena, 

Hon. Minister of Transport and 
Highways, Mass Media 
9th Floor, "MaganegumaMahamedura", 
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Koswatta, 
Battaramulla. 

        3A. Bimal Niroshan Rathnayake,  

Hon. Minister of Transport and Highway,  
7th Floor, Sethsiripaya Stage II ,  
Battaramulla. 

       3B. Appuhamilage Nalinda Jayathissa,  

    Hon. Minister of Health and Mass Media, 
    163, Asi Disi Medura,  
    Kirulapone Mawatha,  
    Polhengoda,  
    Colombo 05. 

4.  Manusha Nanayakkara, 

Hon. Minister of Labour and 
Foreign Employment 
6th Floor, "Mehewara Piyesa", 
Narahenpita, 
Colombo 05. 

       4A. Anthonige Anil Jayantha Fernando, 

    Hon. Minister of Labour,  
    6th Floor,"Mehewara Piyesa", 
    Narahenpita, 
    Colombo 05. 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 2 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      4B.  H. M. Vijitha Herath, 

    Hon. Minister of Foreign affairs,  
    Foreign Employment and Tourism, 

6th Floor,"Mehewara Piyesa", 
Narahenpita, Colombo 05. 

5.  Hon. Attorney General, 
Attorney General's Office, 
Hulftsdorp, Colombo 12. 

Respondents 

Before:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).  

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Counsel:  Nuwan Bopage with Chathura Wettasinghe, instructed by Ramzi 

Bacha Associates for the Petitioners.  

Manoli Jinadasa  with  R. Abeygunawardena, instructed by Rasika 
Wellappili for the 2nd Respondent. 

Rajika Aluwihare, S.C. for 1st, 3rd, 4th and 5th Respondents.  

Written Submissions  
of  the Petitioner   
tendered on  

Written Submissions  
of the 2nd Respondents 
tendered on  

Written Submissions  
of  the 1st, 3rd , 4th  
and 5th  Respondents 
tendered on  

: 

21.05.2025 

:  

18.03.2025 

: 

 20.03.2025 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 3 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decided on:                       

29.05.2025 

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

The  1st  to  10th  Petitioners  in  the  instant  application  have  invoked  the 

supervisory  jurisdiction  of  this  Court  under  Article  140  of  the  Constitution  of 

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called and referred 

to  as  the  ‘Constitution’)  seeking  inter-alia,  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  writ  of 

certiorari quashing the decision of the 1st Respondent dated 28th of July, 2023 

made  under  and  in  terms  of  The  Termination  of  Employment  of  Workman 

(Special  Provisions)  Act  No.  45  of  1971  granting  permission  to  terminate  106 

employees  including  the  Petitioners    marked  as  X9;  for  a  mandate  in  the 

nature  of  writ  of  prohibition  preventing  the  2nd  Respondent  from  terminating  

the  106  employees  including  the  Petitioners,  based  on  the  1st  Respondent’s 

decision  dated,  28th  of  July,  2023  marked  as  X9  and/or  any  other  scheme  of 

retirement/termination; in the alternative, for a mandate in the nature of a writ 

of mandamus directing the 1st Respondent to hold a fresh inquiry in respect of 

the application made by the 2nd Respondent and for a kind of interim relief as 

prayed  for  in  prayer  in  the  petition  of  the  Petitioners.  It  is  to  be  noted  that 

during the pendency of the instant application, the 1st and 3rd to 5th and the 7th 

to 10th Petitioners have withdrawn it and as a result, only, the 2nd and the 6th 

Petitioners are now, pursuing the instant application. Furthermore, during the 

pendency of the instant application, the substitution had taken for the original 

1st, 3rd and the 4th Respondents. When the instant application came on before 

us  on  13th  of  February,  2025  for  support  for  formal  notice  and  interim  relief, 

the  2nd  Respondent  raised  several  preliminary  objections  as  to 

the 

maintainability of the instant application and sought an order from this Court 

thereon. Furthermore, the 1st, 3rd, 4th and the 5th Respondents too, had raised 

several  preliminary  objections  in  paragraph  2  of  their  limited  statements  of 

objections as to the maintainability of the instant application. This Court then, 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 4 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fixed the matter for inquiry into the preliminary legal objections so raised and 

the  parties  moved  for  an  order  thereon,  on  the  strength  of  the  written 

submissions. Hence, the inquiry into the preliminary legal objections was fixed 

for  order  on  the  strength  of  the  written  submissions  as  urged  by  respective 

Counsel. 

The preliminary objections so raised by the 2nd Respondent may be reproduced 

verbatim the same as follows;  

“3)  By  Way  of  Preliminary  Objections,  the  2nd  Respondent  states  that  Your 

Lordships'  Court  has  no  jurisdiction  to  hear  and  determine  the  present 

application  and/or  this  application  should  be  dismissed  in-limine  for  the 

following reasons: 

a)  The writ application is not in conformity with Rule 3(1)(a) of the Court 

of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules 1990 and the averments therein 

are not supported by a valid affidavit. The purported affidavit filed of 

record is undated. 

b)  This writ application seeks to quash by way of a writ of certiorari, the 

order of the Commissioner of Labour made under the Termination of 

Employment  of  Workmen  (Special  Provisions)  Act  No.  45  of  1971  (as 

amended),  marked  as  X9  with  the  petition.  The  impugned  order 

sought to be quashed in these proceedings have been made in-respect 

of  123  employees  of  the  2nd  Respondent  (vide:  document  marked  as 

X9  with  the  petition)  including  the  10  petitioners.  However,  the 

Petitioners have failed and/or neglected to make the 113 employees to 

whom  this  order  applies,  parties  to  this  writ  application.  In  fact, 

approximately  77  employees,  of  the  employees  to  whom  this  order 

relates, have already obtained the compensation in terms of this order 

and  will  be  materially  aggrieved/  prejudiced  by  any  disturbance  of 

this  order,  Accordingly,  the  petitioners  have  failed  to  name  the 

necessary parties in this writ application which is a fatal irregularity 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 5 of 17 

 
 
 
 
as per the prevalent law. As such this Petition should be dismissed in 

limine. 

c)  Principles of estoppel and/or election and/or aprobate and reprobate 

apply  to  this  application  and  the  petitioners  have  by  their  own 

conduct  disentitled  themselves  to  relief.  The  2nd  Respondent 

respectfully  states  that  1st,  3rd,  4th,  9th  and  10th  Petitioners  have 

already  accepted  the  cheques  from  the  Department  of  Labour, 

accepting  the  compensation  awarded  by  the  1st  Respondent.  The  5th 

Petitioner too had signed the  documentation by which he can secure 

compensation. Thus the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 9th and 10th Petitioners have 

accepted  the  order  of  the  1st  Respondent  and  benefitted  by  the  same 

and  cannot  challenge  the  same  by  these  proceedings.  As  such  this 

petition should be dismissed in limine. 

d)  The  Petitioners  have  failed  and/or  neglected  to  annex  the  entirety  of 

the  order  made  by  the  Commissioner  of  Labour  dated  28.07.2023  in 

the  application  number:  No.  TE/12/2023  and  is  guilty  of  material 

suppression  and  representation.  The  schedule  of  the  order  which 

contained the computation of compensation and which is a  part and 

parcel  of  this  order,  had  been  deliberately  and/or  intentionally 

suppressed  by  the  Petitioners.  The  said  schedule  reveals  that  all  of 

the  employees  have  received  the  maximum  compensation  payable 

under  the  TEWA  formula  and  is  not  entitled  to  any  further 

compensation in terms of the law. 

e)  The 2nd Respondent respectfully state that the Petitioners have failed 

to take any steps to challenge the Cabinet decision dated 20.03.2023 

by  any  legal  process.  Therefore,  the  writ  of  Certiorari  prayed  against 

the order made by the 1st Respondent is futile as the Cabinet decision 

no: 23/0394/608/033 dated 23.03.2023 for the liquidation of the 2nd 

Respondent  Company  remains  unchanged,  the  employees  have 

received  the  maximum  compensation  payable  under  the  TEWA 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 6 of 17 

 
 
 
 
formula  and  there  is  no  possibility  to  reinstate  the  employees  due  to 

the 2nd Respondent company being liquidated. 

f)  The Petitioners have suppressed and/or misrepresented material facts 

as explained further below which does not entitle them to the exercise 

of writ jurisdiction of Your Lordship's Court. 

4.  By  way  of  further  preliminary  objections,  the  2nd  Respondents  state 

that the Petitioner, 

I. has not come before Your Lordships' Court with clean hands; 

II.  has  willfully  suppressed  and/or  misrepresented  material  facts 

and  documents  with  the  intention  of  misleading  Your  Lordships' 

Court as explained above and further below. 

III. has instituted these proceedings for collateral purposes; and 

IV. the present application constitutes an abuse of due process of 

Your  Lordships  Court  and  or  abuse  of  Writ  Jurisdictions  of  Your 

Lordships'  Court,  The  2nd  Respondents  respectfully  state  that  for 

one or more or all the reasons set out hereinabove, the Petitioner's 

application should be dismissed in limine.” 

Let me firstly, deal with the preliminary objection 3(b) as enumerated above for; 

it appears to me that it would if upheld, go to the root of the maintainability of 

the instant application entirely, deciding the fate of the instant application.  

The  Petitioners  seek  in  prayer  (b)  of  the  instant  application  an  order  in  the 

nature of a writ of certiorari quashing the 1st Respondent’s decision dated 28th 

of July, 2023 made under and in terms of The Termination of Employment of 

Workman  (Special  Provisions)  Act  No.  45  of  1971  granting  permission  to 

terminate 106 employees including the Petitioners marked as X9. Furthermore,  

they seek in prayer (c) of the instant application for a mandate in the nature of 

a  writ  of  prohibition  preventing  the  2nd  Respondent  from  terminating  the  106 

employees  including  the  Petitioners,  based  on  the  1st  Respondent’s  decision 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 7 of 17 

 
 
 
 
dated,  28th  of  July,  2023  marked  as  X9  and/or  any  other  scheme  of 

retirement/termination.  

Hence it clearly, appears from the relief prayed for in prayer (b) and (c) of the 

petition, the Petitioners in the instant application seek relief for a total number 

of 106 employees including the Petitioners.  

However,  it  is  significant  to  observe  that  from  and  out  of  the  total  number  of 

employees, namely; 106 including the Petitioners-application for permission for 

termination of whose services from the 2nd Respondent had been so granted to 

the  2nd  Respondent  by  the  1st  Respondent  by  its  decision  (X9),  only  10 

employees  namely;  the  original  10  Petitioners  had  instituted  the  instant 

application seeking relief as aforesaid not only for those 10 employees but also 

for  those  employees  who  are  not  parties  to  this  instant  application.  Based  on 

this premise, preliminary objection 3(b) had been raised by the 2nd Respondent.  

The  remaining  2nd  and  6th  Petitioners  in  paragraph  2(ii)  of  their  statement  of 

counter  objections  sought  to  counter  the  said  preliminary  objection  so  raised 

by the 2nd Respondent in paragraph 3(b) of the limited statement of objections 

as enumerated above by contending that, there is no necessity to name all the 

employees as parties since the employees will not be prejudiced  by the orders 

sought by the Petitioners and rather, the employees will be benefited by those 

orders  and  even,  the  Petitioners  have  locus  standi  to  maintain  the  instant 

application.  Relying  on  the  decisions  cited  in  paragraphs  5,  6  and  7  of  their 

written submissions, it was submitted by the remaining 2nd and 6th Petitioners 

in  their  written  submissions  that,  a  party  become  a  necessary  party  to  a  writ 

application  if  the  rights  of  that  party  is  affected  by  the  order  sought  by  the 

applicant is given in his or her favour, hence, the beneficiaries of the impugned 

order must be named as Respondents as they would be adversely affected if the 

order is set aside.  

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 8 of 17 

 
 
 
 
In  the  light  of  the  above,  the  pivotal  question  that  would  arise  for  our 

consideration  would  be,  “who  should  be  a  necessary  party  to  applications 

for writs?”[Emphasis is mine] 

It may now, be examined.  

It  was  held  in  Hatton  National  Bank  PLC  Vs  Commissioner  General 

ofLabour  and  Others.  [CA  (Writ)Application  No.  457/2011;  CA  Minutes  of 

31st  January  2020;  that,  “It  is  trite  law  that  any  person  whose  rights  are 

affected by an order that a petitioner is inviting a Court of law to make in his 

favour  is  entitled  to  be  named  as  a  party  and  is  entitled  to  be  heard,  before 

Court makes any order adverse to such person. The rule is that all those who 

would  be  affected  by  the  outcome  of  an  application  should  be  made 

respondents to such application.” 

It was held in Gnanasambanthan v Rear Admiral Perera and others [1998] 3 

SLR  167  at  172  that  "it  is  both  the  law  and  practice  in  Sri  Lanka  to  cite 

necessary parties to applications for Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus”.  

In  the  decision  in  Wijeratne  (Commissioner  of  Motor  traffic)  Vs.  Ven,  Dr. 

Paragoda Wimalasena Thero and 4 others, [2011] (2) SLR 258 at page 267, 

the  following  two  rules  were  laid  down  by  Court  with  regard  to  naming  of 

necessary parties; 

1.  The first rule regarding the necessary parties to an application for a writ 

of certiorari is that the person or authority whose decision or exercise of 

power  is  sought  to  be  quashed  should  be  made  a  respondent  to  the 

application. If the act sought to be impugned had been done by one party 

on  a  direction  given  by  another  party  who  has  power  granted  by  law  to 

give  such  direction,  the  party  who  had  given  the  direction  is  also  a 

necessary party and the failure to make such party a respondent is fatal 

to the validity of the application.  

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 9 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
2.  The  second  rule  is  that  those  who  would  be  affected  by  the  outcome  of 

the writ application should be made respondents to the application. 

It was held in Dominic V. Minister of_Lands and Others, (2010) 2 SLR 398, 

that,  "In  the  context  of  writ  applications,  a  necessary  party  is  one  without 

whom no order can be effectively made. A proper party is one in whose absence 

an effective order can be made but whose presence is necessary to a complete 

and final decision on the question involved in the proceedings.….Persons vitally 

affected  by  the  writ  petition  are  all  necessary  parties.  If  their  number  is  very 

large,  some  of  them  could  be  made  respondents  in  a  representative  capacity 

(vide Prabodh Derma v. State of Uttara  Pradesh also see Encyclopedia of Writ 

Law By P. M. Bakshi) In view of the above authorities it is clear that the failure 

to name the necessary parties….as parties in this application is fatal. 

In the case of  Abeywardane and 162 others vs. Stanley, Wijesundara, Vice 

Chancellor,University of Colombo and Another [1983] 2 Sri LR 267 at 291 

at it was held that, “The whole petition is directed against the 115 students of 

the North Colombo Medical College. Both the final relief and the Interim order 

asked  for  by  petitioners  are  intended  to  achieve  one  object,  namely,  the 

exclusion  of  the  115  students  from  the  2nd  MBBS  examination.  According  to 

the affidavit of Dr. Ratnavale, who is the Director of the North Colombo Medical 

College,  the  115  students  have  followed  the  approved  courses  of  study,  have 

applied  to  the  University  of  Colombo  to  sit  the  2nd  MBBS  examination,  have 

paid  the  requisite  examination  fees,  and  have  received  their  admission  cards 

from  the  University  of  Colombo  for  the  said  examination.  There  is  no  doubt 

then,  that  if  this  Court  were  to  issue  a  Mandamus  as  prayed  for  by  the 

petitioners,  the  115  students  would  be  adversely  affected.  If  as  contended  by 

learned Counsel for the petitioners, the 115 students have no legal right to sit 

the  2nd  MBBS  examination,  this  is  all  the  more  reason  we  should  have  them 

before  us  and  hear  them,  before  we  make  an  order  against  them.  To  use  the 

words of Cayley, C. J. in effect we are asked by the petitioners to pronounce an 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 10 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
opinion  upon  a  disputed  examination,  without  large  section  of  the  students, 

who propose to sit the examination, being parties to the proceedings or having 

had any notice on them. This we cannot do."We hold that the 115 students of 

the  North  Colombo  Medical  College  are  necessary  parties  and  the  failure  to 

make them respondents is fatal to the petitioners' application”. 

It  was  held  in  Rawaya  Publishers  and  Others  v.  Wijedasa  Rajapaksha  and 

Others,  [2001]  (3)  SLR  213,  at  page  216,  that,  "In  the  context  of  writ 

applications, a necessary party is one without whom no order can be effectively 

made. A proper party is one in whose absence an effective order can be made 

but  whose  presence  is  necessary  to  a  complete  and  final  decision  on  the 

question  involved  in  the  proceedings.  In  the  case  of  Udit  Narayan  Singh  v. 

Board  of  Revenue  it  has  been  held  that  where  a  writ  application  is  filed  in 

respect  of  an  order  of  the  Board  of  Revenue  not  only  the  Board  itself  is 

necessary party but also the parties in whose favour the Board has pronounced 

the  impugned  decision  because  without  them  no  effective  decision  can  be 

made. If they are not made parties then the petition can be dismissed in limine. 

It  has  also  been  held  that  persons  vitally  affected  by  the  writ  petition  are  all 

necessary  parties.  If  their  number  is  very  large,  some  of  them  could  be  made 

respondents  in  a  representative  capacity  (vide  Prabodh  Derma  v.  State  of 

Uttara Pradesh also see Encyclopedia of Writ Law By P. M. Bakshi)" (Emphasis 

is mine).  

See also; Jayawardena_and Another Vs. Pegasus Hotels Of Ceylon Ltd. And 

Others [2004] 2 Sri. LR 39.  

It is trite law that, in the context of writ applications, a necessary party is one 

without whom no order can be effectively made; and that, a proper party is one 

in  whose  absence  an  effective  order  can  be  made  but  whose  presence  is 

necessary  to  a  complete  and  final  decision  on  the  question  involved  in  the 

proceedings  and  hence,  persons  vitally  affected  by  the  writ  petition  are  all 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 11 of 17 

 
 
 
 
necessary parties; and that, if their number is very large, some of them could 

be made respondents in a representative capacity.    

As clearly, and unequivocally, manifest from the decision of the 1st Respondent 

(X9),  he  had  granted  permission  to  the  2nd  Respondent  at  his  request  to 

terminate  123  employees  including  original  10  Petitioners  to  the  instant 

application  from  the  services  of  the  2nd  Respondent  by  virtue  of  the  Cabinet 

Decision (X3) to liquidate the 2nd Respondent-institution (X3).  

It was submitted by the 2nd Respondent in the written submissions that, out of 

123  employees-application  for  termination  of  whose  services  from  the  2nd 

Respondent had been so granted to the 2nd Respondent by the 1st Respondent 

by  its  decision  (X9),  not  even  a  single  employee  other  than  the  original  10 

Petitioners  to  the  instant  application,  had  sought  to  challenge  the  decision  of 

the 1st Respondent (X9), instead, 77 employees  out of 123 employees,  had on 

their  own  volition  already,  obtained  the  compensation  from  the  2nd 

Respondent  in  terms  of  the  order  made  by  the  1st  Respondent  (X9)  and  that, 

even  the    1st,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  7th,  8th,  9th  and  10th  Petitioners  to  the  instant 

application  too,  had  after  the  institution  of  the  instant  application  before  this 

Court by them, had obtained compensation from the 2nd Respondent in terms 

of the decision made by the 1st Respondent (X9) and proceeded to withdraw the 

instant  application 

insofar  as  their  challenge 

is  concerned, 

in  total 

abandonment  of  their  challenge  to  the  decision  of  the  1st  Respondent  (X9). 

However,  it  is  significant  to  observe,  that  the  Petitioners  had  either  in  their 

counter  statement  of  objections  or  in  their  written  submissions,  never  sought 

to challenge and/or controvert and/or repute the submissions so made by the 

learned  Counsel  for  the  2nd  Respondent  as  aforesaid,  hence  submissions  so 

made  by  the  learned  Counsel  for  the  2nd  Respondent  would  still,  remain 

unchallenged and/or uncontroverted. [Emphasis is mine] 

Hence,  it  clearly,  and  manifestly,  appears  from  the  unchallenged  and/or 

uncontroverted  submissions  of  the  2nd  Respondent  that,  not  even  a  single 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 12 of 17 

 
 
 
 
employee other than the original 10 Petitioners to the instant application, had 

sought  to  challenge  the  decision  of  the  1st  Respondent  (X9),  instead,  77 

employees out of 123 employees, had on their own volition already, obtained 

the compensation from the 2nd Respondent in terms of the order made by the 

1st  Respondent  (X9)  and  that,  even  the    1st,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  7th,  8th,  9th  and  10th 

Petitioners to the instant application too, had after the institution of the instant 

application  before  this  Court  by  them,  had  on  their  own  volition  obtained 

compensation from the 2nd Respondent in terms of the decision made by the 1st 

Respondent (X9) and proceeded to withdraw the instant application insofar as 

their  challenge  is  concerned,  in  total  abandonment  of  their  challenge  to  the 

decision of the 1st Respondent (X9) [Emphasis is mine].  

Moreover,  it  had  never  been  the  position  of  the  Petitioners  that,  they  had 

instituted  the  instant  application  in  a  representative  capacity  representing  all 

the other employees subject to the decision of the 1st Respondent (X9). Besides, 

there has been no iota of evidence on record to suggest that it was so.    

In  those  the  circumstances,  I  am  of  the  view    that,  the  principles  of  Natural 

Justice absolutely, and essentially, demand that the rest of the employees out 

of  123  employees-application  for  termination  of  whose  services  from  the  2nd 

Respondent had been so granted to the 2nd Respondent by the 1st Respondent 

by  its  decision  (X9)  and  who  had  on  their  own  volition  obtained 

compensation from the 2nd Respondent in terms of the decision made by the 1st 

Respondent (X9), ought to have been afforded a reasonable opportunity to have 

been  heard  in  opposition  to  the  instant  application  of  the  Petitioners,  before 

this Court would make a decision in granting or not granting mandates in the 

nature  of  writ  of  certiorari  quashing  the  decision  of  the  1st  Respondent  dated 

28th of July, 2023 made under and in terms of The Termination of Employment 

of  Workman  (Special  Provisions)  Act  No.  45  of  1971  granting  permission  to 

terminate  106  employees  including  the  Petitioners    marked  as  X9  and  in  the 

nature  of  writ  of  prohibition  preventing  the  2nd  Respondent  from  terminating  

the  106  employees  including  the  Petitioners,  based  on  the  1st  Respondent’s 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 13 of 17 

 
 
 
 
decision  dated,  28th  of  July,  2023  marked  as  X9  and/or  any  other  scheme  of 

retirement/termination, otherwise, the rights of the rest of the employees who 

had on their own volition obtained compensation from the 2nd Respondent in 

terms  of  the  decision  made  by  the  1st  Respondent  (X9)  would  gravely,  and 

prejudicially,  be affected by a decision of this Court in the event of this Court 

opting to grant  mandates in the writ of  certiorari  and  prohibition prayed for in 

prayer (b) and (c) of the petition of the Petitioners.  

In  view  of  the  facts  and  the  law  discussed  and  elucidated  by  me  as  above,  I 

would hold that, the rest of the employees of the 2nd Respondent-application for 

termination of whose services from the 2nd Respondent had been so granted to 

the  2nd  Respondent  by  the  1st  Respondent  by  its  decision  (X9)  are  those 

without  whom  no  order  can  be  effectively,  made  by  this  Court  in  the  instant 

application for writs in the nature of certiorari and prohibition thus, they should 

be  necessary  parties  to  the  instant  application  and  the  Petitioners  failure  to 

make them parties  is fatal,  to the instant application  as rightly, contended by 

the 2nd Respondent.  

I would therefore, hold that the preliminary objection raised in paragraph 3(b) 

of  the  statement  of  limited  objections  of  the  2nd  Respondent  is  entitled  to 

succeed both in fact and law and therefore, it ought to be upheld. 

Hence, I would hold that the instant application should be dismissed in-limine 

on this ground alone as rightly, contended by the 2nd Respondent.  

Next,  I  would  propose  to  deal  with  the  preliminary  objection  raised  in 

paragraph 3(e) of the statement of limited objections of the 2nd Respondent and 

it  is  to  this  effect;  “The  2nd  Respondent  respectfully  state  that  the 

Petitioners have failed to take any steps to challenge the Cabinet decision 

dated  20.03.2023  by  any  legal  process.  Therefore,  the  writ  of  Certiorari 

prayed  against  the  order  made  by  the  1st  Respondent  is  futile  as  the 

Cabinet  decision  no:  23/0394/608/033  dated  23.03.2023  for  the 

liquidation  of  the  2nd  Respondent  Company  remains  unchanged,  the 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 14 of 17 

 
 
 
 
employees  have  received  the  maximum  compensation  payable  under  the 

TEWA formula and there is no possibility to reinstate the employees due 

to the 2nd Respondent company being liquidated.” 

Hence, this preliminary objection is based on the doctrine of futility,  

It  is  not  in  dispute  that,  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  took  a  decision  to  liquidate 

the 2nd Respondent-institution as manifest from the document annexed to their 

petition  by  the  Petitioners  marked  as  X3.  It  is  also,  not  in  dispute  that,  the 

decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to liquidate the 2nd Respondent-institution 

as  manifest  from  the  document  X3,  had  been  duly,  communicated  by  the 

Secretary  to  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  to  the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of 

Transport  and  Highways.  It  is  also  not  in  dispute  that,  the  Secretary  to  the 

Ministry of Transport and Highways had by its letter annexed to their petition 

by the Petitioners, marked as X4, duly, conveyed it to the Chairman of the 2nd 

Respondent-institution. It is also not in dispute that, the Chairman of the 2nd 

Respondent-institution had made an application to the 1st Respondent to grant 

him  permission  to  terminate  the  services  of  123  employees  of  the  2nd 

Respondents under and by virtue of the powers vested in him by the provisions 

of the Termination of Employment of Workman (Special Provisions) Act No. 45 

of 1971(as amended) as manifest from the document annexed to their petition 

by  the  Petitioners  marked  as  X5.  It  is  also  not  in  dispute  that,  the  1st 

Respondent, had having held an inquiry into the said application made to him 

by the 2nd Respondent, granted permission to terminate the services of the said 

employees of the 2nd Respondent acting under the powers vested in him by the 

Termination  of  Employment  of  Workman  (Special  Provisions)  Act  No.  45  of 

1971 (as amended) as manifest from the document annexed to their petition by 

the Petitioners marked as X9. 

Therefore, it clearly, appears to me that, the  2nd  Respondent was  thus, forced 

and  bound  to  make  an  application  to  the  1st  Respondent  to  grant  him 

permission  to  terminate  the  services  of  the  said  employees  of  the  2nd 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 15 of 17 

 
 
 
 
Respondent by virtue of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to liquidate the 

2nd Respondent-institution.  Hence, the decision sought to be impugned in the 

instant application had directly, derived from the direction and/or by virtue of 

the decision made by the Cabinet of Ministers to liquidate the 2nd Respondent 

institution.  

However,  it  is  significant  to  observe,  that,  the  Petitioners  in  the  instant 

application  had  not in  any  manner  sought  to  impugn  and  quash  the  decision 

made by the Cabinet of Ministers to liquidate the 2nd Respondent institution by 

way of a writ of certiorari X3, and hence, the decision made by the Cabinet of 

Ministers to liquidate the 2nd Respondent institution would still, remain intact 

and unchallenged even, in the event of this Court opting to grant a mandate in 

the  nature  of  a  writ  of  certiorari  quashing  the  decision  of  the  1st  Respondent 

granting  the  2nd  Respondent  permission  to  terminate  the  services  of  the  2nd 

Respondent-institution. In the result, granting of writ of certiorari by this Court 

quashing  the  decision  of  the  1st  Respondent  granting  the  2nd  Respondent 

permission  to  terminate  the  services  of  the  2nd  Respondent-institution  would 

no  doubt,  become  futile  insofar  as  the  decision  made  by  the  Cabinet  of 

Ministers  to  liquidate  the  2nd  Respondent  institution  remains  intact  and 

unchallenged.  

I would therefore, hold that, in the absence of a specific prayer for quashing the 

decision  made  by  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  to  liquidate  the  2nd  Respondent 

institution,  by  virtue  of  which  the  decision  of  the  1st  Respondent  directly, 

derives, granting of writ of certiorari by this Court quashing the decision of the 

1st  Respondent  granting  the  2nd  Respondent  permission  to  terminate  the 

services  of  the  2nd  Respondent-institution  would  no  doubt  be  futile  as  rightly, 

contented by the 2nd Respondent.  

I would therefore, hold that the preliminary objection raised in paragraph 3(e) 

of  the  statement  of  limited  objections  of the  2nd  Respondent  too,  is  entitled  to 

succeed both in fact and law and therefore, it too, ought to be upheld. 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 16 of 17 

 
 
 
 
Hence, I would hold that the instant application should be dismissed in-limine 

on this ground too, as rightly, contended by the 2nd Respondent. 

In view of my aforesaid findings with regard to the preliminary objections raised 

in  paragraphs  3(b)  and  (e)  of  the  statement  of  limited  objections  of  the  2nd 

Respondent, I would hold that, the instant application is liable to be dismissed 

in-limine.  

In view of the above, I do not consider it necessary to deal with the rest of the 

preliminary objections so raised both by the 2nd Respondent as well as the 1st, 

3rd, 4th and 5th Respondents in their respective limited statement of objections.  

I would therefore, hold that the instant application is not entitled to succeed in 

both in fact and law.  

In  the  result,  I  would  refuse  to  grant  relief  to  the  Petitioners  as  prayed  for  in 

the prayer to their petition. 

Hence,  I  would  proceed  to  dismiss  the  instant  application  in-limine  by 

upholding the preliminary objections so raised in paragraph 3 (b) and (e) of the 

limited statement of objections of the 2nd Respondent.  

However, in view of all the above circumstances, I make no order for costs.   

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA). 

I agree. 

PRESIDENT(ACTING) OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

CA/WRT/0461/2023 

Page 17 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
