CA Bail 24/2025 

 IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  Application  for 

Bail  in  terms  of  Section  83  of  the 

Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs  Act  as  amended  by  Act 

No.41 of 2022. 

Court of Appeal Bail 

The Attorney General 

Application No: 

Attorney General’s Department 

CA Bail/0024/2025 

Colombo-12. 

COMPLAINANT 

Vs. 

High Court of Gampaha 

Mohomed Swahir Mohomed Infas 

HCC No.31/2023  

(In remand custody) 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

ACCUSED 

Fathima Safrina Mohomed Isham 

No.218/1/12, Wolfendale Street, 

Colombo-13. 

PETITIONER 

Vs. 

1.  The Attorney General 

 Attorney General’s Department, 

 Colombo-12. 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 24/2025 

        2. Officer-in Charge, 

   Police Narcotics Bureau,  

   Colombo-01. 

RESPONDENTS 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S. Dissanayake, J 

COUNSEL                    : 

Shamindra  Rodrigo  with  Eranda 

Sinharage for the Petitioner.  

Wishwa  Wijesuriya,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

27/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

22/05/2025. 

***************************** 

ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The  Petitioner  had  applied  for  bail  on  behalf  of  the  Accused  under 

Section  83(2)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

amended  Act  No.41  of  2022.  The  Petitioner  is  the  husband  of  the 

Accused. 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
 
CA Bail 24/2025 

On  14.08.2022,  upon  receiving  an  information,  the  Accused  was 

arrested  by  officers  attached  to  Police  Narcotics  Bureau,  Colombo-01 

and recovered a parcel from the Accused. When the Accused came out 

of his house, he was arrested by the police. The parcels contained some 

substances which reacted for Heroin (Diacetylmorphine). The substance 

weighed about 163 grams. 

The  Accused  was  produced  and  facts  were  reported  to  the  Gampaha 

Magistrate  under  Section  54A  (b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance  as  amended  by  the  Act  No.13  of  1984.  A 

detention  order  was  obtained  to  conduct  further  investigation  in 

keeping the Accused under police custody.  

The  production  had  been  sent  to  the  Government  Analyst  Department 

on 29/08/2022. After analysis, the Government Analyst had forwarded 

the  report  to  Court  on  05/12/2022.  According  to  the  Government 

Analyst,  26.1  grams  of  pure  Heroin  (Diacetylmorphine)  had  been 

detected  from  the  substance  sent  for  the  analysis.  The  Accused  had 

been indicted before the High Court of Gampaha under the case bearing 

No. HC 31/23. 

The  Following  exceptional  circumstances  are  submitted  by  the 

Petitioner:  

1.  The Accused is in remand custody nearly for about 33 months. 

2.  No suspicious substance recovered from the Accused at the time 

of his arrest. 

3.  The Accused is a father of four children and the sole breadwinner 

of the family. 

4.  The  Accused’s  14-year  daughter  is  suffering  from  a  heart 

condition. 

5.  Trial  has  not  commenced  even  after  serving  the  indictment  on 

09.10.2023. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 24/2025 

One  of  the  preliminary  objections  taken  up  by  the  State  is  that  the 

Petitioner  has 

failed 

to  establish  an  acceptable 

“exceptional 

circumstance” to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court.       

The  Learned  State  Counsel  submitted  that  the  delay  is  not  an 

exceptional  circumstance  to  be  considered  to  enlarge  the  Accused  on 

bail.  Further,  the  time  spent  for  preparing  the  indictment  does  not 

constitute  an  exceptional  circumstance.  According  to  the  State,  the 

Accused had been indicted in the High Court of Gampaha.  

The suspect is in remand for nearly 33 months.  

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what 

is  exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.    

The  Section  83  of  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Act 

which was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this  section,  a  person  suspected  or  accused  of  an  offence  under 

sections  54A  and  54B  of  this  Ordinance,  shall  not  be  released  on  bail 

by the High Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 24/2025 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall  not  be  released  on  bail  except  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in 

exceptional circumstances. 

In  this  case  the  pure  quantity  of  Heroin  detected  in  the  production  by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  26.1  grams.  Hence,  this  Court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment.  

The learned Counsel for the Petitioner urged this Court to consider that 

the  detaining  a  Accused  for  an  extended  period  of  time  amounts  to  a 

violation  of  his  fundamental  rights  which  can  be  considered  as  an 

exceptional ground. 

The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that the Accused was 

not in possession any contraband when he was arrested. 

The  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the  investigations  can 

only be tested at the trial upon the witnesses being cross examined and 

shall  not  be  tested  at  the  time  of  hearing  this  bail  application 

considering the nature of this case. 

In  Nasher  v.  Director  of  Public  Prosecution  [2020]  VSCA  144  the 

court held that: 

“a  combination  of  delay,  onerous  custodial  conditions,  and  the 

relative  weakness  of  the  prosecution  case  may,  when  considered 

with  all  relevant  circumstances,  compel 

the  conclusion 

that 

exceptional circumstances have been established”. 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 24/2025 

Accordingly,  considering  the  fact  that  there  has  been  a  delay  of  33 

months  since  in  the  remand  custody,  it  falls  into  the  category  of 

excessive  and  oppressive  delay  taking  into  account  the  circumstances 

of  this  case.  Further  trial  has  not  commenced  in  the  High  Court  of 

Gampaha.  Hence,  this  court  has  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the 

Accused has established exceptional grounds for the granting of bail.    

The  Offences  under  Section  54A(b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 are 

no doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offences alone cannot 

form  a  ground  to  refuse  bail.  In  considering  these  matters,  the  court 

must  bear  in  mind  the  presumption  of  innocence.  Further,  the 

according to the police, no previous or pending case/s reported against 

the Accused.  

Taking  all  these  into  account,  especially  the  pure  quantity  of  Heroin 

detected,  the  period  in  remand,  non-commencement  of  the  trial  and 

other circumstances of the case, I  consider this  is  an appropriate case 

to grant bail to the Accused pending trial. Hence, I order the Accused be 

granted bail with following strict conditions. 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.100,000/=.  

2.  To  provide  02  sureties.  They  must  sign  a  bond  of  two  million 

each. 

3.  The  Accused  and  the  sureties  must  reside  in  the  address  given 

until conclusion of his case. 

4.  Not  to  approach  any  prosecution  witnesses  directly  or  indirectly 

or to interfere with. 

5.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel  document.  The  Controller  of  the 

Immigration  and 

Emigration is informed of the travel ban on the Accused. 

6.  To  report  to  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau  on  the  second  and  the 

last Sunday of every month between 9am to 1pm. 

7.  Any  breach  of  these  conditions  is  likely  to  result  in  the 

cancellation of his bail. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 24/2025 

The  Bail  Application  is  allowed  and  the  learned  High  Court  Judge  of 

Gampaha  is  hereby  directed  to  enlarge  the  Accused  on  bail  on  the 

above bail conditions. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  send  this  Bail  Order  to  the 

High  Court  of  Gampaha  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Narcotics 

Bureau, Colombo-01. 

K.M.S. Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
