IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  under  and  in 
terms  of  Section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act  No  2 
of  1978  (as  amended)  for  transfer  of  DC  Case 
4711M Panadura. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 
CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Ronald Michael Stanley, 
Permanently Residing at  
4 Natalie Court Cranbourne Victoria 3977 
Australia 

Temporarily Residing at 
49 Lionel Edirisinghe Mw 
Colombo 5 

Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Hapuhandige Senaka Kumara Fernando, 

93B Thuduwe Waththa,  
Galthude, 
Panadura. 

2.  Don Ajith Rohana Ilepperuma,  

94/3A Waidya Mawatha,  
Galthude, 
Panadura. 

3.  Sarath Srilal Dissanayake, 

Inspector of Police 
Moratuwa Police Station 
Moratuwa 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 1 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Kumaradasa Hettiarchchy, 
28 Urban Housing Complex 
Munagama Horana 

5.  Honourable Attorney General, 
Attorney General's Department 
Colombo 12 

Respondents 

Before 

:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).  

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Counsel 

: 

Petitioner is appearing in person.  
Wishwa Wijesuriya SC for the State. 

Supported on 

:      11.03.2025 

Written Submissions  
by the Petitioner  
tendered on  

Written Submissions  
by the Respondents 
tendered  on 

: 

23.04.2025 

: 

Not tendered. 

Decided on   

:         09.05.2025 

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

This is an application made by the Petitioner appearing in person to this Court 

under  and  in  terms  of  section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act  (as  amended) 

(hereinafter  called  and  referred  to  as  ‘the  Act’)  for  the  transfer  of  a  civil  case 

pending  in  the  District  Court  of  Panadura  bearing  No.  4711/M  (hereinafter 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 2 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
called and referred to as the ‘civil case’), wherein, the Petitioner is the Plaintiff, 

to any other appropriate Court that this Court shall deem fit.  

When this matter came on before us on 11.03.2025 for support for notice of the 

instant  application  for  transfer,  the  Petitioner  submitted  to  Court  that  matter 

would of consent, be disposed of by way of written submissions. It was further 

submitted to Court by the Petitioner that he would however, rely on the petition 

already, submitted to Court in support of the same and therefore not willing to 

tender  written  submissions  in  support  thereof.  However,  it is  to  be  noted  that 

the  Petitioner  had  notwithstanding,  furnished  to  this  Court  a  set  of  belated 

written  submissions.  On  the  other  hand,  learned  SC  appearing  for  the 

Respondents  moved  to  file  synopsis  in  this  regard  but,  not  filed  in  Court. 

Hence,  we  are  proceeding  to  hear  and  determine  the  application  of  the 

Petitioner for notice of the instant application for transfer on the merits on the 

strength of the material available on the record. 

The  Petitioner  in  his  petition  and  affidavit,  had  averred  several  facts  and 

circumstances  which  according  to  him  warrant  a  transfer  of  the  civil  case 

pending before the District Court of Panadura wherein he is the Plaintiff.  

According to the facts and circumstances averred in the petition and affidavit, 

Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  who  wielded  connections  to  the  political  hierarchy  in  the 

area and the local police, Ms. Mangalika-wife of Mr. Senaka Kumara and their 

associates  had  caused  acts  of  intimidation  and  harassment  on  the  Petitioner 

who  holds  a  dual  citizenship  of  Sri  Lanka  and  Australia  and  who  in  the  year 

2000,  bought  an  island  named,  Kokduwa  located  in  the  Bolgoda  Lake, 

Panadura  with  intention  of  building  the  first  island  golf  course  in  Asia  in 

collaboration  with,  and  incorporating  substantial  foreign  investment  and 

partnership,  Ms.  Cleo  Muller  who  was  the  Petitioner’s  business  partner  and 

who had purchased Tuduwe Waththa from one Mr. Perera as being access road 

to the said island named Kokduwa in the year 2009, and the Petitioner’s staff 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 3 of 11 

 
 
 
 
as  a  direct  result  of  refusal  by  the  Petitioner  and  Ms.  Muller  to  succumb  to 

extortion  of  Rs.  2,000,000/-  demanded  by  Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  for  a  peaceful 

passage to the proposed project land; that since then, there had been constant 

conflicts  between  the  Petitioner,  Ms.  Muller  on  the  one  hand  and  Mr.  Senaka 

Kumara  and  his  wife  Ms.  Mangalika  and  their  associates  on  the  other,  as  a 

result  of  which  a  significant  number  of  complaints  and  counter  complaints  

had been lodged to Panadura and Hirana Police stations, by both the Petitioner 

and  Ms.  Muller  on  the  one  hand  and  Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  and  his  wife  Ms. 

Mangalika on the other, as a result of which a  number of cases had been filed 

before  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura,  by  Police  against  the  Petitioner  and  Mr. 

Senaka  Kumara  as  well  which  are  still,  pending  in  Court;  that  consequent  to 

which  16  illegal  criminal  cases  had  been  filed  against  him  by  Police  on 

fictitious complaints lodged by them even without an inquiry being held thereto 

or  without  a  statement  being  recorded  thereon;  that  in  the  premise,  the 

Petitioner had instituted the civil case naming the said Senaka Kumara, Sarath 

Srilal  Dissanayake-Inspector  of  Police  Moratuwa  and  several  other  persons  as 

the  defendants  thereto  for  malicious  prosecution  claiming  damages  in  respect 

of which the instant application for transfer from District Court of Panadura to 

any  other  appropriate  Court  had  now,  been made  to  this  Court  by  him  in  the 

instant application for transfer. 

It  was  further,  averred  by  the  Petitioner  in  the  averments  in  the  petition  that 

considering  the  unlawful  malicious  actions  of  Mr.  Fernando,  his  political 

connections in Panadura, the death threats against him and his employees, the 

narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the  officers  concerned  of  the 

Panadura/Hirana  Police,  the  intense  pain  and  suffering  that  he  had  been  put 

through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life  in  view  of  his  inability  to  attend  to  his 

mother’s funeral and also his inability to get back to Australia due to impound 

of his passport by Court, he truly, believes that there is a risk to his life.  

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 4 of 11 

 
 
 
 
Reason  for  the  transfer  of  the  civil  case  as  disclosed  by  the  Petitioner  in  the 

averments in the paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of his petition, appears to be of his 

alleged inability to retain a lawyer from Panadura area to handle the civil case 

in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  present  proxy  lawyer  rarely  visits  to  Panadura 

District  Court  and  the  fact  that  his  senior  Counsel  is  unable  to  get  a  lawyer 

from  Panadura  area  to  accept  the  Proxy  to  handle  his  case  as  a  result  of  the 

complaint  for  the  falsification  of  documents  being  lodged  by  him  to  the 

Supreme Court against Amila Ishara Nawalage, Ms. Chamika Lakmali Rodrigo 

and  Mr.  Tharaka  Liyanaarachchi  all  of  whom  are  Panadura  based  lawyers 

representing the said Senaka Kumara.  

It  is  in  this  backdrop  of  the  instant  application,  I  would  now,  propose  to 

examine the provisions of law governing an application of this kind.  

It is Section 46(1) of the Act which lays down the grounds of transfer of a case 

from one Court to another and it enacts thus;  

“46. (1) Whenever it appears to the Court of Appeal  

(a)  that  a  fair  and  impartial  trial  cannot  be  had  in  any  particular 

court or place; or  

(b)  that  some  questions  of  law  of  unusual  difficulties  are  likely  to 

arise; or  

(c) that a view of the place in or near which any offence is alleged 

to  have  been  committed  may  be  required  for  the  satisfactory 

inquiry into or trial of the same ; or 

(d) that it is so expedient on any other ground,  

the  court  may  order  upon  such  terms  as  to  the  payment  of  costs  or 

otherwise  as  the  said  Court  thinks  fit,  for  the  transfer  of  any  action, 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 5 of 11 

 
 
 
 
prosecution, proceeding or matter pending before any court to any other 

court,  and  accordingly  in  every  such  case,  the  court  to  which  any  such 

action,  prosecution,  proceeding  or  matter  is  so  transferred  shall, 

notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  or  any  other  law,  take 

cognizance  of  and  have  the  power  and  jurisdiction  to  hear,  try  and 

determine  such  action,  prosecution,  proceeding  or  matter,  as  fully  and 

effectually  to  all  intents  and  purposes  as  if  such  Court  had  an  original 

power and jurisdiction.”  

Upon a careful reading of the averments in the petition of the Petitioner in its 

totality,  it  becomes  manifestly  clear  that,  the  Petitioner  does  not  in  any 

manner, state therein under which limb of Section 46(1) of the Act, namely; (a), 

(b), (c) or (d) he makes the instant application for transfer of the civil case from 

Panadura District Court to any other appropriate Court.  

It is in this context, I would think it necessary and expedient at this juncture to 

precisely,  ascertain  in  the  first  instance  from  the  facts  and  circumstances  

averred  in  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner,  under  which  limb  of  Section  46(1)  of 

the Act namely; (a), (b), (c) or (d), the Petitioner seeks transfer of the aforesaid 

civil case. 

Upon  a  careful  reading  of  the  averments  in  the  petition  in  its  entirety,  it 

becomes manifestly, clear that as a basis of his application  for transfer under 

section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  it  was  not  in  any  manner,  alleged  therein  by  the 

Petitioner that (a) a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in the District Court 

of Panadura; or, that (b) some questions of law of unusual difficulties are likely 

to arise before the District Court of Panadura.  

In view of the matters specifically, averred in paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of the 

petition  as  enumerated  above,  the  instant  application  for  the  transfer  of  the 

civil case clearly, appears to me to be one falling under limb (d) of section 46(1) 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 6 of 11 

 
 
 
 
of the Act, namely; that it is so expedient on any other ground.  [Emphasis 

is mine]  

The  pivotal  question  that  would  next,  arise  before  us  is;  On  whom  does  the 

burden of proof lay in an application of this kind and the scope and or the 

nature of it?[Emphasis is mine] 

It  was 

inter-alia,  held  by 

this  Court 

in  Sivasubramaniam  Vs. 

Sivasubramaniam  [1980]  2  SLR  58,  at  Page  64,  that  “A  party  to  an  action 

who seeks a transfer of a pending action from the Court in which it is pending 

to  another  Court  must  adduce  ‘sufficient  grounds’  to  satisfy  us  that  it  is 

expedient  to  make  an  order  for  its  transfer.  ‘Expedient”  in  this  context,  in  my 

view, means fit or proper. A transfer would not be ordered on light grounds.” 

It was inter-alia, held by this Court in Abdul Hasheeb vs. Mendis Perera and 

Others  [1991]  1  SLR  243  at  pages  257  and  258  that,  “.......the  expression 

‘expedient’  in  the  context  means,  advisable  in  the  interests  of  the  justice 

indeed,  the  purpose  of  conferring  the  power  of  transfer  as  provided  for  in 

section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act,  is  to  ensure  the  due  administration  of 

justice.”.   

It  was  inter-alia,  held  by  this  Court  in  Karunaratne  Vs.  Simon  Singho  and 

Others [2011] 2 SLR 22, at page 25 that “…..expedient would mean advisable 

in the interest of justice”.  

In  order  to  succeed  in  his  application  for  transfer  of  the  civil  case,  the 

Petitioner is bound to discharge the burden of proof so rested upon him. Now 

the pivotal question is whether the Petitioner was successful in discharging the 

same.   

It may now, be examined.  

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 7 of 11 

 
 
 
 
In  order  to  succeed  in  his  application  for  transfer  of  the  said  civil  case  from 

District Court of Panadura to any other appropriate Court under Section 46 of 

the Act, the Petitioner is bound to establish to our satisfaction through cogent, 

compelling  and  convincing  evidence,  his  alleged  inability  to  retain  a  lawyer 

from Panadura area to handle the civil case in view of the fact that the present 

proxy  lawyer  rarely  visits  to  Panadura  District  Court  and  the  fact  that  his 

senior  Counsel  is  unable  to  get  a  lawyer  from  Panadura  area  to  accept  the 

Proxy  to  handle  his  case  as  a  result  of  the  complaint  for  the  falsification  of 

documents  being  lodged  by  him  to  the  Supreme  Court  against  Amila  Ishara 

Nawalage,  Ms.  Chamika  Lakmali  Rodrigo  and  Mr.  Tharaka  Liyanaarachchi  all 

of whom are Panadura based lawyers representing the said Senaka Kumara as 

alleged by the Petitioner in the averments in the paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of 

his petition.  

In support of the averments embodied in the paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of his 

petition,  the  Petitioner  had  annexed  to  his  petition  a  number  of  documents 

marked as ‘X’ and “A1 to A4”. 

However, upon a careful perusal of the plaint (X) and the other documents (A1 

to  A4),  it  clearly  appears,  that  they  are  not  in  any  manner,  supportive  of  his 

assertion that he is unable to retain a lawyer from Panadura area to handle the 

civil  case  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  present  proxy  lawyer  rarely  visits  to 

Panadura District Court and the fact that his senior Counsel is unable to get a 

lawyer from Panadura area to accept the Proxy to handle his case as a result of 

the  complaint  for  the  falsification  of  documents  being  lodged  by  him  to  the 

Supreme Court against Amila Ishara Nawalage, Ms. Chamika Lakmali Rodrigo 

and  Mr.  Tharaka  Liyanaarachchi  all  of  whom  are  Panadura  based  lawyers 

representing the said Senaka Kumara.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  Petitioner  had  not  furnished  to  this  Court 

material sufficient to arrive at a conclusion that he is unable to retain a lawyer 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 8 of 11 

 
 
 
 
from Panadura area to handle the civil case in view of the fact that the present 

proxy  lawyer  rarely  visits  to  Panadura  District  Court  and  the  fact  that  his 

senior  Counsel  is  unable  to  get  a  lawyer  from  Panadura  area  to  accept  the 

Proxy  to  handle  his  case  as  a  result  of  the  complaint  for  the  falsification  of 

documents  being  lodged  by  him  to  the  Supreme  Court  against  Amila  Ishara 

Nawalage,  Ms.  Chamika  Lakmali  Rodrigo  and  Mr.  Tharaka  Liyanaarachchi  all 

of whom are Panadura based lawyers representing the said Senaka Kumara as 

alleged by him in the paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of his petition. 

I would therefore, hold that, the instant application for transfer of the civil case 

under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  cannot  sustain  both  in  fact  and  law  and 

therefore, not entitled to succeed both in fact and law, on this ground alone.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  civil  case 

under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  bears  no  merit  and  therefore,  it  ought  to  be 

dismissed on this ground alone.  

Furthermore,  in  order  to  satisfy  this  Court,  the  Petitioner  had  not  furnished 

any  material  to  it  showing  even  a  single  instance  where  a  lawyer  from  the 

Panadura Bar had refused to appear for him for the reasons stated by him in 

the averments in paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of his Petition.  

Besides, even, if, it is to be assumed for a moment for the sake of the argument 

that, his assertion is true yet, the Petitioner is not without a remedy for; he can 

still, be able to retain a lawyer from an outside Bar even, if such an endeavor 

turns out to be costly for; it is he who had instituted the instant action against 

the  Respondents  seeking  certain  reliefs  as  observed  by  this  Court  in  the 

decision in Manatunga Vs. Amarasinghe [2004] 3 SLR 07 at page 12.  

In  view  of  the  above,  It  would  clearly,  appear  to  me  that  except  for  the  mere 

assertion so made by the Petitioner in the petition that, he is unable to retain a 

lawyer from Panadura area to handle the civil case in view of the fact that the 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 9 of 11 

 
 
 
 
present proxy lawyer rarely visits to Panadura District Court and the fact that 

his senior Counsel is unable to get a lawyer from Panadura area to accept the 

Proxy  to  handle  his  case  as  a  result  of  the  complaint  for  the  falsification  of 

documents  being  lodged  by  him  to  the  Supreme  Court  against  Amila  Ishara 

Nawalage,  Ms.  Chamika  Lakmali  Rodrigo  and  Mr.  Tharaka  Liyanaarachchi  all 

of whom are Panadura based lawyers representing the said Senaka Kumara as 

alleged  by  him  in  the  paragraphs  25,  26  and  27  of  his  petition,  the  Petitioner 

had  not  through  cogent,  convincing  and  compelling  evidence,  made  out  a 

strong  case  for  transfer  of  the  civil  case.  Hence,  the  said  assertion  of  the 

Petitioner remains a mere assertion unproven and unsubstantiated by cogent, 

convincing and compelling evidence.   

I would therefore, hold that, the instant application for transfer of the civil case 

under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  cannot  sustain  both  in  fact  and  law  and 

therefore, not entitled to succeed both in fact and law on this ground too.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  civil  case 

under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  bears  no  merit  and  therefore,  it  ought  to  be 

dismissed on this ground too.  

In  view  of  all  the  above  circumstances,  I  would  hold  that  the  Petitioner  had 

failed  to  establish  to  the  satisfaction  of  this  Court  such 

facts  and 

circumstances as urged by him in paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of his petition as 

the  basis  for  his  application  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  for  transfer  of  the 

civil case from the District Court of Panadura to any appropriate Court.  

On a careful consideration of all the relevant material placed before us, I would 

hold  that  the  Petitioner  had  failed  to  adduce  sufficient  material  to  satisfy  us 

that it would be expedient to make order for the transfer of the civil case from 

the District Court of Panadura to any other appropriate Court under any of the 

limbs of section 46(1) of the Act, namely; (a), (b),(c) or (d).  

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 10 of 11 

 
 
 
 
Hence, I would hold that, the Petitioner had failed to adduce sufficient grounds 

for a transfer of the civil case from the District Court of Panadura to any other 

appropriate Court even under section 46(1)(d) of the Act.  

I  would  therefore,  hold  that  this  is  not  a  fit  and  proper  case  for  us  to  make 

order issuing notices on the Respondents. 

I would thus, refuse to issue notices on the Respondents. 

Hence, I would, dismiss the instant application in limine with costs.  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA). 

I agree. 

PRESIDENT (ACTING) OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

CA/TRF/0007/2025 

Page 11 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
