CA BAIL  345-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for 

bail in terms of Section 83(2) of the 

Amended Act No.41 of 2022 to the 

Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs Ordinance No.17 of 1929. 

Court of Appeal Bail Application   The Officer-in-Charge 

No.CA Bail/0345/24 

Colombo Crime Division 

MC Mahara Case No. 

 Dematagoda. 

B 3953/2023 

                         COMPLAINANT 

Mallawa Pathirennehelage  

Chanuka Amith Iranga 

SUSPECT 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Kandagoda Arachchige Madushani 

Dilrukshi 

No.96/3, Sooriyapaluwa, 

Kadawatha. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
  
                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA BAIL  345-2024 

Vs 

1.  The Officer-in Charge 

Colombo Crime Division, 

Dematagoda. 

 COMPLAINANT -RESPONDENT                 

2.  The Attorney General 

Attorney  General’s  Department, 

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENT 

Mallawa Pathirennehelage  

Chanuka Amith Iranga 

SUSPECT 

BEFORE                    : 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

                                            K.M.G.H.Kulatunga, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Vindya Ekanayake for the Petitioner.  

Wishwa  Wijesuriya,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

05/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

01/04/2025. 

***************************** 

ORDER 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
CA BAIL  345-2024 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner filing this Application has invoked the jurisdiction of this 

Court to grant bail to her husband who is the Suspect in this case upon 

suitable condition as this Court considers appropriate.  

The Suspect was arrested on 20.08.2023 by the Police officers attached 

to the Colombo Crime Division. He was produced before the Magistrate 

of Mahara in the case bearing No. B/3953/2023. 

The  Suspect  was  arrested  upon  an  information  received  by  officers 

attached to Colombo Crime Division. After an undercover investigation, 

the  salutes  identified  the  Suspect.  Upon  search  the  police  officers  had 

found  a  parcel  identified  as  Methamphetamine  from  the  Suspect.  The 

substance weighed about 100.600 grams.  

The  Suspect  was  produced  and  facts  were  reported  to  the  Mahara 

Magistrate  under  Sections  54A  (b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984. 

The  production  had  been  sent  to  the  Government  Analyst  Department 

and after analysis, the Government Analyst had forwarded the report to 

the  Mahara  Magistrate  Court.  According  to  the  Government  Analyst, 

16.3  grams  of  pure  Methamphetamine  had  been  detected  from  the 

substance sent for the analysis.  

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of her Revision Application.  

1.  The  Suspect  has  been  in  remand  custody  little  more  than  two 

years. 

2.  The Suspect if the sole breadwinner of the family. 

3.  The Suspect is falsely implicated in this case. 

4.  The  Suspect  is  a  married  person  and  the  Petitioner  is  suffering 

from cancer.    

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA BAIL  345-2024 

The  Learned  State  Counsel  submitted  that  the  delay  is  not  an 

exceptional  circumstance  to  be  considered  to  enlarge  the  suspect  on 

bail.  Further,  the  time  spent  for  preparing  the  indictment  does  not 

constitute an exceptional circumstance. 

The suspect is in remand  nearly 20 months.  According to Government 

Analyst Report the pure quantity of Heroin detected is 16.3 grams.  

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what 

is  exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case-by-case basis. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”. 

In  CA(PHC)APN  107/2018  decided  on  19.03.2019  the  court  held  that 

remanding  for  a  period  of  one  year  and  five  months  without  being 

served with the in indictment was considered inter alia in releasing the 

suspect  on  bail.  According  to  the  Petitioner,  at  present  her  family  is 

going through untold hardship without proper income and care.    

The  Section  83  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Act 

which was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this  section,  a  person  suspected  or  accused  of  an  offence  under 

sections  54A  and  54B  of  this  Ordinance,  shall  not  be  released  on  bail 

by the High Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA BAIL  345-2024 

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,   

shall  not  be  released  on  bail  except  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in 

exceptional circumstances. 

In  this  case  the  pure  quantity  of  Heroin  detected  in  the  production  by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  16.3  grams.  Hence,  this  court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner urged this Court to consider that 

detaining a  Suspect without any legal action for an extended period of 

time  amounts  to  a  violation  of  his  fundamental  rights  which  can  be 

considered as an exceptional ground. 

The  Government  Analyst  Report  pertaining  to  this  case  has  been 

received  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Kurunegala  on  08.01.2024.  The 

indictment has not been sent to the High Court up to now. According to 

the learned State Counsel the IB Extract pertains to this case had been 

received on 11.06.2024 but no legal action has been taken up to now. 

This  is  after  more  than  one  year  of  the  receipt  of  the  Government 

Analyst  Report  by  the  Magistrate  Court  and  nearly  20  months  of  his 

arrest.  

The  right  to  trial  without  undue  delay  is  found  in  numerous 

international and regional human rights  instruments; for example, the 

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Article 14(3)(c), the 

American  Convention  on  Human  Rights  (Article  8(1),  the  African 

Charter  on  Human  and  People’s  Rights  (Article  7(1)(d),  and  the 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA BAIL  345-2024 

European  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  Human  Rights  and 

Fundamental Freedoms (Article 6(1).    

When a person is kept in remand without taking his or her case for trial 

for a considerable period of time, he or  she should be released on bail 

pending trial. Otherwise, this will lead not only  to prison overcrowding 

but  also  violates  his  or  her  fundamental  rights  which  have  been 

guaranteed under the Constitution. 

Although it revealed he as three pending cases, details of the same were 

not revealed to this Court.  

Hence,  I  consider  the  delay  nearly  20  months  in  remand  falls  into  the 

category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering 

the 

circumstances of this case.  Hence, considering all the circumstances of 

this  case,  the  suspect  has  very  good  exceptional  circumstances  to 

consider  this  application  in  his  favour.  Further,  remanding  a  suspect 

without resort to legal action will prejudice his or her rights and family 

as well. 

Offences  under  Section  54A(b)  and  54A(d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is no 

doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offence alone cannot form 

a  ground  to  refuse  bail.  In  considering  these  matters,  the  court  must 

bear in mind the presumption of innocence. 

Further, bail should never be withheld as punishment. Granting of bail 

is  primarily  at  the  discretion  of  the  Courts.  The  discretion  should  be 

exercised  with  due care  and  caution  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 

circumstances of each case.    

Considering  all  these  factors  into  account,  especially  the  period  in 

remand, the pure quantity of Heroin detected and the circumstances of 

the  case,  I  consider  this  an  appropriate  case  to  grant  bail  to  the 

suspect. Hence, I order the suspect be granted bail with following strict 

conditions. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA BAIL  345-2024 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.100,000/=.  

2.  To  provide  02  sureties.  They  must  sign  a  bond  of  two  million 

each. 

3.  The  suspect  and  the  sureties  must  reside  in  the  address  given 

until conclusion of his case. 

4.  Not  to  approach  any  prosecution  witnesses  directly  or  indirectly 

or to interfere with. 

5.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel  document.  The  Controller  of  the 

Immigration  and 

Emigration is informed of the travel ban on the suspect. 

6.  To report to the Dematagoda Police Station on the second and the 

last Sunday of every month between 9am to 1pm. 

7.  Any  breach  of  these  conditions  is  likely  to  result  in  the 

cancellation of his bail. 

The Bail Application is allowed and the Learned Magistrate of Mahara is 

hereby  directed  to  enlarge  the  suspect  on  bail  on  the  above  bail 

conditions. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  send  this  order  to  the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Mahara  and  Officer-in-Charge,  the  Police  Station, 

Dematagoda. 

K.M.G.H. Kulatunga, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
