IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 

SRI LANKA 

Court of Appeal Case No: 
CA/WRIT/23/25 

In  the  matter  of  an  Application  under  Article 
140  of  the  Constitution  for  a  mandate  in  the 
nature of Writ of Mandamus. 

JF Tours & Travels (Ceylon) (Pvt.) Ltd, 
No. 189, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,  
Colombo 04. 

PETITIONER 

Vs.  

1.  J.I.D. Jayasundara, 
General Manager, 
Sri Lanka Railways, 
Sri Lanka Railways Headquarters, 
Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10. 

2.  W.D. Ranjith Pathmalal, 

Deputy General Manager (Commercial), 
Sri Lanka Railways, 
Sri Lanka Railways Headquarters, 
Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10. 

3.  N.J. Indipolage, 

Deputy General Manager (Transportation), 
Sri Lanka Railways, 
Sri Lanka Railways Headquarters, 
Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10. 

4.  Chief Engineer,  

Sri Lanka Railways, 
Sri Lanka Railways Headquarters, 
Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Hon. Attorney General,  

Attorney General’s Department, 
Colombo 12. 

                                              RESPONDENTS 

Before: 

Counsel: 

Mayadunne Corea, J 
Mahen Gopallawa, J 

Theekshana  Pathirana  instructed  by  Dilhara  Arachchige  for  the 
Petitioner. 
M. Amerasinghe, SSC for the Respondents. 

Supported on: 

06.02.2025 

Decided on: 

28.03.2025 

Mayadunne Corea J  

The Petitioner seeks the following reliefs. 

“(d)  Grant  an  order  in  the  nature  of  a  writ  of  Mandamus  directing  the  1st 
Respondent, and/or one or more of the 2nd – 4th Respondent’s acting under the 1st 
Respondent to honor the terms of P4 in particular with regard to the requests [in 
the form of an advance notice] of the Petitioner, under and in terms of P4 viz. Clause 
5 read with Clause 9, to provide Viceroy Special [coaches with steam engine i.e. 
Loco213  B2B,  Loco  215  B1A  and  Loco  340  B1D]  in  good  running  order  and 
running condition;  

(e) Grant an Order in the nature of a writ of Mandamus directing the 1st Respondent, 
and/or one or more of the 2nd – 4th Respondent’s acting under the 1st Respondent to 
honor the terms of P4 in particular with regard to the requests [in the form of an 
advance notice] of the Petitioner, under and in terms of P4 viz. Clause 5 read with 

2 

 
 
 
                                                         
 
 
 
 
  
 
Clause 9, to provide Viceroy Special [coaches with diesel engines] in good order 
and running condition;” 

The facts of the Petitioner’s case are as briefly as follows. The Petitioner company is a tour 
operator and launched the Viceroy Special luxury steam train service (herein referred to 
the Viceroy Special) which is the subject matter of this Application. The Petitioner submits 
that the Viceroy Special was in uninterrupted operation for a period of 38 years from 1986 
until 2024. For the use of the train the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent had entered into a 
contract. The Petitioner and the 1st Respondent from time to time renewed the contract and 
it was a part of the conditions that, 

“a.  The  Petitioner  shall  meet  the  full  cost  of  reconditioning,  renovating  and  air 
conditioning of Viceroy Special and the routine maintained of the interior of the 
carriages.  

… 

e.  1st Respondent shall provide Viceroy Special in good order and running condition 
when so requested by the Petitioner by the Petitioner, subject to sufficient notice 
given prior to each journey, as per the terms of the Agreement in force [i.e. 10 
days] Viz. Clause 5 read with Clause 9 of P4; 

f. payment relevant for each journey shall be per the invoice forwarded by the 1st 
Respondent, calculated in terms of the provisions of the relevant Agreement in 
force,  all  of  which  had  been  to  date  settled  by  the  Petitioner,  as  and  when 
intimated;” 

The  parties  entered  into  an  Agreement  to  renew  the  Viceroy  Special  contract  on 
08.11.2023, which is valid from 08.11.2023 through 07.11.2028. The Petitioner states that 
during the operation of the Viceroy Special in 2024, payments to the 1st Respondent were 
settled in a timely manner.  The Petitioner notified the 1st Respondent of the necessity to 
operate 3 round trips of the Viceroy Special but the 1st Respondent in breach of the contract 
has failed to supply the steam train. Hence, this Application. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Petitioner’s case  

The Petitioner contends that the failure to supply the train by the 1st Respondent caused 
irreparable damage and the 1st Respondent has failed to comply with his obligations.  

Respondents’ objection  

The Senior  State Counsel for the Respondents objected to  the issuance of notice  on the 
basis that the relationship between the parties is contractual and hence without a statutory 
flavour. 

What governs the relationship between the parties? 

The Petitioner is not at variance that the relationship between the parties is bound by the 
commitments that the said parties made under the document marked as P4. The said P4 is 
a contract between the parties. The said contract is valid from 08.11.2023 to 07.11.2028. It 
is the contention of the Petitioner that prior to entering into this contract, the parties have 
entered into previous contracts that date back to 1986. It is further contended that as per 
the agreement the Petitioner is to be supplied with an engine to run the Viceroy Special 
train on the payment of the stipulated amounts in the contract. It is also submitted that the 
Petitioner  on  various  occasions  has  spent  on  maintaining  the  train  and  getting  foreign 
experts to attend to the train engines. The Petitioner is alleged to have paid all the funds. 
However, it appears that the Respondents have instituted action against the Petitioner for 
non-payment  of  an  expenditure  as  per  the  terms  of  the  agreement  between  the  parties. 
Further, the Respondents state that as per the P4 agreement, the Respondents are not liable 
to provide steam engines to run the train, but the clause stipulates that the engine provided 
to run the train would be steam or diesel. They further stated that the inability to provide 
a steam engine is due to the two steam engines that were provided to the Petitioner being 
broken and needing repairs.  However, the learned Counsel for the Respondents were in 
agreement to provide a diesel engine. The Petitioner contented that their agreement is not 
to get a diesel engine and the entire business promotion that the Petitioner has published is 
to carry passengers in a steam locomotive. Hence, they insist on a steam locomotive.  

Be  that  as  it  may,  this  Court  will  now  consider  the  objections  of  the  Respondents.  The 
Respondents contend that what the Petitioner seeks is based on the agreement between the 
parties reflected in the document marked as P4. This Court observes that the Petitioner too 
is  relying  on  the  document  marked  as  P4  and  all  the  documents  are  based  on  the 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
implementation  of  P4.  The  Petitioner  does  not  contend  that  the  Respondents’  failure  to 
provide a train arises out of a decision bad in law. His contention is that he has a legal right 
based  on  the  document  marked  as  P4  to  be  supplied  with  a  steam  engine  which  the  1st 
Respondent has failed to do.   

This  Court  has  carefully  considered  the  submission  made  by  the  Petitioner  and  by  the 
Respondents. This Court has also considered the documents marked as P1 to P21. It is clear 
that the relationship between the Petitioner and the Respondent is based presently under 
P4, the contract between the parties. Thus, the Court can safely come to the conclusion that 
the relationship between the parties is contractual. 

It is contended by the Petitioner that to enter into P4, the said agreement had been vetted 
by  the  Hon.  Attorney  General  and  the  agreement  was  entered  into  based  on  a  Cabinet 
decision. However, the Petitioner has failed to plead the said Cabinet decision. In reply the 
learned Senior State Counsel submits that, there is no Cabinet decision tendered with the 
Petition. 

Reliefs prayed  

The Court observes that the Petitioner in his prayer has prayed to obtain mainly 2 relief 
among other things. As enumerated in prayer (d) and (e). Prayer (d) reads as follows:  

“(d)  Grant  an  order  in  the  nature  of  a  writ  of  Mandamus  directing  the  1st 
Respondent, and/or one or more of the 2nd – 4th Respondent’s acting under the 1st 
Respondent to honor the terms of P4 in particular with regard to the requests [in 
the  form  of  an  advance  notice]  of  the  Petitioner,  under  and  in  terms  of  P4  viz. 
Clause 5 read with Clause 9, to provide Viceroy Special [coaches with steam engine 
i.e. Loco213 B2B, Loco 215 B1A and Loco 340 B1D] in good running order and 
running condition;” 

Prayer (e) reads as follows: 

“(e)  Grant  an  Order  in  the  nature  of  a  writ  of  Mandamus  directing  the  1st 
Respondent, and/or one or more of the 2nd – 4th Respondent’s acting under the 1st 
Respondent to honor the terms of P4 in particular with regard to the requests [in 
the  form  of  an  advance  notice]  of  the  Petitioner,  under  and  in  terms  of  P4  viz. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clause  5  read  with  Clause  9,  to  provide  Viceroy  Special  [coaches  with  diesel 
engines] in good order and running condition;” 

It is observed that P4 is the agreement between the parties. In summary, the Petitioner is 
seeking for the Respondent to provide him with the steam train pursuant to P4. It is evident 
that  the  Petitioner  is  attempting  to  invoke  the  Writ  jurisdiction  in  seeking  a  Writ  of 
Mandamus for the specific performance of a contract the 1st Respondent had entered into 
with the Petitioner. The Petitioner has failed to demonstrate any statutory flavour which 
enables him to invoke the Writ jurisdiction of this Court.  If there is a breach of contract 
the Petitioner Company must advise themselves as to the course of action, the Petitioner 
should follow.   

It  is  trite  law  that  if  the  relationship  between  the  parties  is  contractual,  no  writ  lies. 
According  to  "Administrative  Law"  (10th  Edition)  by  Professors  Wade  and  Forsyth, 
"contractual  obligations  are  not  enforceable  by  judicial  review"  (p.678).  It  is  further 
stressed  that  "contracts  of  employment  are  equally  beyond  the  scope  of  quashing  and 
prohibiting  orders"  (p.538).  This  was  pontificated  in  Vidyodaya  University  Council  v. 
Silva (1965) 1 WLR 77 and in R v. Post Office ex p. Byrne (1975) ICR 221, R v. Crown 
Prosecution Service ex p. Hogg (1994) 6 Admin. LR 778. 11.  

The case of M.S.S Salahudeen v. Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd. cited the case of Galle Flour 
Milling (Pvt) Limited v. Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and another (2002) BLR 10, 
which held that,  

"An analysis of the relationship that existed between the parties reveals that as it 
was  purely  a  contractual  one  of  commercial  nature,  neither  certiorari  nor 
mandamus will lie to remedy the dispute over the rights of the parties. The purported 
breach of such rights (and) the grievance(s) between the parties, arise entirely from 
a breach of contract, even if one of the parties   was a statutory or public authority.” 

Further  this  Court  in  K.W.D.  Chandrani  v.  National  Housing  Development  Authority 
CA/WRIT/0036/24 decided on 31.07.2024 considered the decisions of the Supreme Court 
in M.P.A.U.S. Fernando and others v Timberlake International Pvt. Ltd. and another 
S.C. Appeal No. 06/2008 decided  on 02.03.2010, Ratnayake and others v C.D. Perera 
and others (1982) 2 SLR 451 and the Court of Appeal in decision Jayaweera v Wijeratne 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
(1985)  2  SLR  413  to  hold  that  where  the  relationship  between  the  parties  is  purely 
contractual, judicial review will not lie.  

It  is  also  observed  by  this  Court  that  even  if  there  was  a  Cabinet  memorandum  and  a 
corresponding  Cabinet  decision,  the  said  decision  is  for  the  parties  to  entered  into  a 
commercial contract. When considering the facts of this case, this Court finds that there is 
no statuary obligation for the 1st Respondent to provide the said train. The said obligation 
arises only through a commercial contract entered between the two parties. Hence, it is the 
considered view of this Court that the Learned Senior State Counsel’s objections have to 
succeed.  

In  coming  to  the  said  conclusion,  this  Court  also  observes  that  the  Respondent’s  had 
violated a Cabinet decision. It is also observed that the Petitioner’s case is not to enforce a 
Cabinet decision but the Petitioner’s case is to enforce P4, which is a contract between the 
Petitioner and the 1st Respondent. Hence, it is clear the Petitioner is attempting to obtain a 
Writ of Mandamus to implement a contract.  

Accordingly, considering all material placed before this Court and the submissions made, 
for  the  reasons  stated  above  this  Court  is  not  inclined  to  issue  formal  notices  on  the 
Respondents and proceeds to dismiss this Application.  

This Court also wishes to make an observation, that is, if the parties wish to proceed with 
their commitments under P4 or reach a settlement this Order should not be an obstacle for 
the same.  

Mahen Gopallawa, J 

I agree 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

7 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
