IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 

OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an Application for mandates in 

the nature of Writs of Certiorari, Mandamus and 

Prohibition under and in terms of Article 140 of 

the  Constitution  of  the  Democratic  Socialist 

Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

N. Seelanatha Holdings (Private) Limited, 

No. 29/7, 

Walawwatta Place, Galpotta Road, 

Nawala. 

Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Colombo Lotus Tower Management 

Company (Private) Limited, 

No. 320, D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha,  

Colombo 10.  

2.  Telecommunications Regulatory 

Commission of Sri Lanka, 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 1 of 22  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 08.  

Respondents 

Before:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).  

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Counsel 

: 

Ali Sabry, P.C. with Naamiq Nafath and  

Vimukthi Karunarathne for the Petitioner.  

Janaprith Fernando with Amila Pereram 

Zam Zam Ismail and Lakshika 

Mahindasinghe instructed by K. U. 

Gunasekara for the 1stRespondent.  

Sumathi Dharmawardhena, A. S. G. for 

the 2nd Respondent.  

Argued on 

:         28.02.2025 

Written Submissions  

by the Petitioner tendered  

on 

: 

07.03.2025 

Written Submissions  

by the 1st Respondent 

tendered on  

: 

07.03.2025  

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 2 of 22  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decided on   

:         04.04.2025 

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Instant  application  had  been  preferred  to  this  Court  by  the  Petitioner  -  N. 

Seelanatha Holdings (Private) Limited (hereinafter called and referred to as ‘the 

Petitioner’) citing therein Colombo Lotus Tower Management Company (Private) 

Limited  and  Telecommunications  Regulatory  Commission  of  Sri  Lanka,  as  the 

1st and 2nd Respondents respectively, (hereinafter called and referred to as ‘the 

1st and 2nd Respondents’) under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution 

of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  (hereinafter  called  and 

referred to as ‘The  Constitution’) praying   inter  alia, for the  grant and issue of 

an  order  in  the  nature  of    a  writ  of  Certiorari  calling  for  and  quashing  the 

purported decision of the 1st Respondent and/or their servants and/or agents 

to  evict  the  Petitioner  from  the  premises  more  fully  described  in  the  Letter  of 

award  dated  06.09.2023,  annexed  to  the  petition  marked  as  ‘X3’  (hereinafter 

called  and  referred  to  as  ‘the  Letter  of  award’.)  namely;  ‘Ground  Floor 

Commercial  Space  01  having  an  extent  of  2583  Sq.ft  at  the  Colombo  Lotus 

Tower  Premises’  (hereinafter  called  and  referred  to  as  ‘the  premises  in  suit’)  - 

(Vide  –  Prayer  ‘C’  to  the  petition);    for  the  grant  and  issue  of  an  order  in  the 

nature of  a writ of Certiorari  calling  for and quashing the purported decision 

of  the  1st  Respondent  and/or  their  servants  and/or  agents  to  charge  and/or 

recover  from  the  Petitioner  the  full  monthly  lease  rental  in  respect  of  the 

premises  in  suit  in  the  absence  of  adequate  supply  of  electricity  and  other 

utility services which are necessary to conduct the operations of the Petitioner - 

(Vide  –  Prayer  ‘D’  to  the  petition);  for  the  grant  and  issue  of  an  order  in  the 

nature  of    a  writ  of  Mandamus  directing  the  1st  Respondent  and/or  their 

servants and/or agents to enter into a lease agreement as set out in the terms 

and  conditions  stipulated  in  the  Letter  of  award  -  (Vide  –  Prayer  ‘E’  to  the 

petition);  for  the  grant  and  issue  of  an  order  in  the  nature  of    a  writ  of 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 3 of 22  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mandamus directing the 1st Respondent and/or their servants and/or agents to 

act in terms of the conditions contained in the Letter of award - (Vide – Prayer 

‘F’ to the petition); for the grant and issue of an order in the nature of  a writ of 

Mandamus directing the 1st Respondent and/or their servants and/or agents to 

comply  with  the  terms  and  conditions  contained  in  the  Letter  of  award  read 

together with the terms and conditions annexed to the email dated 30.06.2024 

annexed to the petition marked as ‘X9(i)’ confirming the assignment especially 

adequate supply of electricity - (Vide – Prayer ‘G’ to the petition); for the grant 

and  issue  of  an  order  in  the  nature  of   a  writ  of  Prohibition  restraining  the  1st 

Respondent  and/or  their  servants  and/or  agents  to  thereof,  from  illegally  and 

unlawfully  interfering  in  respect  of  the  possession  of  the  Petitioner  and/or 

evicting the Petitioner in the absence of a lawful termination - (Vide – Prayer ‘H’ 

to  the  petition);  for  the  grant  and  issue  of  an  order  in  the  nature  of    a  writ  of 

Prohibition restraining the 1st Respondent and/or their servants and/or agents 

thereof from terminating the agreement on  the failure of the Petitioner to pay  

full  lease  rental    in  the  absence  of  adequate  supply  of  electricity  and  other 

utility services which are necessary to conduct the operations of the Petitioner - 

(Vide – Prayer ‘I’ to the petition) together with kind of interim orders as prayed 

for in prayer ‘J’, ‘K’ and ‘L’ of the petition against the 1st Respondent.  

When  this  matter  came  on  before  us  on  07.02.2025,  the  learned  President’s 

Counsel furnished documents to this Court to establish that notices had been 

issued  to  the  Respondents  under  courier  service.  This  Court  then,  having 

scrutinized  the  petition,  affidavit,  documents  and  the  submissions  of  the 

learned  President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner,  directed  formal  notices  to  be 

issued  on  the  Respondents  together  with  temporary  interim  orders  as  prayed 

for in paragraphs ‘j’ and ‘l’ of the prayers to the petition operative till next date.   

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 4 of 22  

 
 
 
 
 
It is to be noted that, the 2nd Respondent had been made a party to the instant 

application  only  for  the  purpose  of  notice  in  terms  of  paragraph  3(c)  of  the 

petition. 

On  the  notice  returnable  day  on  28.02.2025,  the  1st  Respondent  raised  a 

number of preliminary legal objections as to the maintainability of the instant 

application  and  as  to  the  grant  of  the  interim  relief  and  invited  this  Court  to 

hear  and  determine  them  in  the  first  instance.  We  then,  having  heard  oral 

submissions  of  the  respective  counsel  for  the  parties  on  the  preliminary  legal 

objections,  permitted  them  to  file  written  submission  at  the  registry  on  or 

before 07.03.2025 as urged, and then, fixed it for order.  

In the light of the paragraph 3 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the written submissions of 

the  1st  Respondent,  preliminary  legal  objections  so  raised  by  the  learned 

Counsel  for  the  1st  Respondent  are  four-fold  and  they  may  be  enumerated  as 

outlined therein as follows;  

a)  The relationship between the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent is purely 

contractual;  

b)  The Petitioner could have sought specific performance for their purported 

grievance;  

c)  Without  prejudice  to  the  submission  set  out  in  (b)  above,  the  Petitioner 

could have sought damages for their purported grievance; 

d)  The purported grievance of the Petitioner does not amount to a violation 

of natural justice; 

Since,  it  appears  to  me  that  the  preliminary  legal  objections  (a)  and  (d) 

enumerated  above,  are  interwoven,  I  would  propose  to  deal  both  of  them 

together for convenience and clarity.  

(a)  The relationship between the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent is 

purely contractual; 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 5 of 22  

 
 
 
 
(d)  The  purported  grievance  of  the  Petitioner  does  not  amount  to  a 

violation of natural justice;  

It  was  the  position  of  the  1st  Respondent  that  the  relationship  between  the 

Petitioner  and  the  1st  Respondent  is  purely  contractual,  thus,  the  transaction 

culminated in the leasing out of the premises in suit to the Petitioner by the 1st 

Respondent,  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  embodied  in  the  Letter  of 

award (‘X3’) and the email (‘X9’), is a commercial transaction and therefore, not 

amenable to judicial review and/or writ jurisdiction of this Court and as such, 

instant  application  of  the  Petitioner  cannot  be  maintainable  in  law  and  it 

should therefore, be dismissed in-limine. 

In support thereof, the 1st Respondent had sought to heavily, rely on a passage 

from the book titled “The Law of Contracts” by C.G. Weeramanthri - Volume 1 

at  page  83,  a  passage  from  the  book  titled  “Administrative Law”-  10th  Edition, 

by  H.  W.  R.  Wade  at  pages  526  and  527,  a  passage  from  the  book  titled 

“Principles of Administrative Law in Sri Lanka” - 3rd Edition – Volume 2, by Dr. 

Sunil  F.  A.  Cooray,  and  also  on  the  decisions  in  Siva  Kumar  Vs.  Director-

General of Samurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka & another 2007 [1] SLR 96, U. K. 

Karunawathie Vs. People’s Bank and Others CA (Writ) Application No. 863/10 

decided on 12.05.2025, Podi Nona Vs. Urban Council of Horana-1981 (2) SLR 

141,  Gawarammana  Vs.  Tea  Research  Board  and  Others  2003  (3)  SLR  120, 

Jayaweera  Vs.  Wijerathne-1985  (2)  SLR  413,  Dayanthi  Dais  Kaluarachchi 

Hitiyawatta  Vs. Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and Other SC-Appeal 43/2013 

– SC Minutes – 19.06.2019, Ven. Walawahangunuwawe Dharmarathana Thero 

Vs.  Mihinthale  Pradeshiya  Sabhawa  –  CA(PHC)  107/2014-  CA  Minutes-

10.11.2021  and  Madugalle  Vs.  National  Housing  Development  Authority  and 

Others CA/Writ/ 540/2019-CA Minutes-16.06.2020. 

The  Petitioner  had  on  the  other  hand,  sought  to  counter  the  said  preliminary 

objection  by  contending  that  if,  a  contractual  matter  amounts  to  an  executive 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 6 of 22  

 
 
 
 
or  administrative  action,  the  same  is  subject  to  judicial  review  by  this  Court, 

for;  Bodies  performing  public  duties  or  exercising  powers  that  may  well,  be 

characterized as “public”, may be subject to judicial review in respect of those 

powers  and  duties  even  though  they  are  not  statutory  or  prerogative.    It  was 

therefore, submitted by the Petitioner that as there has been a clear breach of 

statutory  duty  by  the  1st  Respondent,  the  Petitioner  in  the  instant  application 

is entitled to seek relief through a writ application before this Court by invoking 

jurisdiction of this Court conferred upon it under and in terms of Article 140 of 

the Constitution based on the legitimate expectation accrued to the Petitioner. 

In support thereof, the Petitioner  had sought to heavily, rely on a passage from 

the  book  titled,  “Judicial  Remedies  in  Public  Law”-6th  Edition  by  Sir  Clive 

Lewis, a passage from the book titled “De Smith’s Judicial Review”- 9th Edition 

and  the  decisions  in  Wijewardhana  Vs.  Kurunegala  Plantations  Ltd-SCFR-

24/2013-decided on 03.09.2014, Wickrematunga Vs. Anuruddha Rathwatte & 

Others  1998  (1)  SLR  201,  CA/Writ/  540/2019-  decided  on  16.06.2020, 

CA/Writ  64/2021-  decided  on  05.09.2023,  Harjani  and  Another  Vs.  Indian 

Overseas Bank and Others 2005 (1) SLR 167 at page 171, Lanka Securities Pvt 

(Ltd) Vs. Colombo Stock Exchange and Others 2020 (2) SLR 121, at page 125. 

In  view  of  the  preliminary  legal  objection  enumerated  above  and  its’  counter, 

the  thresh-hold  issue  that  would  arise  for  our  decision  is  whether  the  matter 

before  this  Court  is  within  the  category  of  “contract”  as  contended  by  the  1st 

Respondent,  or  “executive  or  administrative  action”  as  contended  by  the 

Petitioner.  

It is in this context, let me now briefly, set out the facts relevant to the instant 

application as averred in the petition by the Petitioner. The 1st Respondent is a 

fully  State  owned  company  duly  registered  in  terms  of  the  Companies  Act  No. 

07  of  2007;  that  the  2nd  Respondent  is  the  Telecommunications  Regulatory 

Commission  of  Sri  Lanka  established  under  and  in  terms  of  the  Sri  Lanka 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 7 of 22  

 
 
 
 
Telecommunications  Act No. 25 of 1991 (as amended) and is a body corporate 

which is capable of inter-alia of suing and being sued in its own name; that 2nd 

Respondent  is  seized  and  possessed  and/or  well  and  sufficiently  entitled  to 

Colombo Lotus Tower; that under and by virtue of the Indenture of lease No. 33 

dated  10.04.2023  attested  by  S.  K.  M.  Perera  Notary  Public,  the  2nd 

Respondent  leased  the  said  Colombo  Lotus  Tower  to  the  1st  Respondent;  that 

the 2nd Respondent is made a party only for the purpose of notice; that it was 

brought  to  the  notice  of  the  predecessor  of  the  Petitioner,  namely;  Virtrans 

Capital Deliveries (Pvt.) Ltd that the Ground Floor Commercial Space 01 having 

an extent of 2583 Sq.ft at the Colombo Lotus Tower Premises’ was available for 

lease;  that  the  predecessor  of  the  Petitioner  by  Expression  of  interest  dated 

22.08.2023 expressed its interest to lease the premises to carry out a business 

of food and beverages, namely; “Foodie Outlet” for a period of 5 years; that the 

concept was  to set up a food court with 10 outlets and the outlets to subleased 

to  vendors;  that  the  1st  Respondent  awarded  the  lease  of  the  premises  of  the 

predecessor  of  the  Petitioner  by  Letter  of  award  dated  06.09.2023  subject  to  

inter-alia    the  terms  and  conditions  stipulated  therein;  that  since,  the 

relationship  between  Virtrans  Capital  Deliveries  (Pvt.)  Ltd  and  the  1st 

Respondent  had  become  strained,  the  Petitioner  requested  the  1st  Respondent 

it  to  be  officially  recognized  as  the  business  operator  thereof  and  agreed  to 

settle  the  outstanding  lease  rentals  by  Virtrans  Capital  Deliveries  (Pvt.)  Ltd  to 

the  1st  Respondent;  that  by  email  dated  30.06.2024,  the  director  of  the 

Petitioner  company  was  informed  by  the  1st  Respondent  company  that 

permission  has  been  granted  to  the  Petitioner  company  to  continue  the 

“Foodie”  operations  whereby  the  Board  of  the  1st  Respondent  had  decided  to 

continue  with  the  Petitioner  on  the  same  terms  and  conditions  set  out  in  the 

Letter  of  award  to  be  read  together  with  the  set  of  terms  and  conditions 

annexed to the email; that the 1st Respondent was unable to provide adequate 

capacity  of  electricity  for  the  Petitioner  to  operate  all  the  outlets  in  the  Food 

Court  and  accordingly,  the  1st  Respondent  had  raised  invoices  on  a  Pro-rata 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 8 of 22  

 
 
 
 
basis  in  respect  of  the  number  of  outlets  occupied  and  as  at  the  date  of  the 

lease  was  assigned  to  the  Petitioner,  lease  rentals  and  or  service  charge 

amounting  to  Rs.  4,492,821.73/-  was  outstanding  which  was  duly,  settled  by 

the Petitioner and a further invoice was raised for the month of June 2024 on a 

Pro-rata  basis  in  respect  of  3  outlets  that  were  occupied  which  had  been  duly 

settled  by  the  Petitioner;  that  due  to  the  differences  of  opinion,  a  lease 

agreement  could  not  be  executed  to-date;  that    operations  of  the  Food  Court 

were  disrupted  due  to  the  insufficiency  of  the  load  capacity  of  electricity 

supplied to the premises in suit and the Petitioner informed the 1st Respondent 

about  this  issue  and  the  1st  Respondent  requested  the  Petitioner  to  provide 

detailed  information  on  the  power  consumption  for  each  outlet  and  a  report 

from an electrical engineer thereon, was made available to  the 1st Respondent 

but,  the  1st  Respondent    failed  to  address  the  issue  thereby  causing  to  the 

Petitioner  a  loss  of  several  clients  and  investment  opportunities;  that  when 

matters  remained  as  such  on  or  around  01.02.2025,  the  1st  Respondent 

purported to unlawfully and illegally restrict the Petitioner and its sub-lessees 

from accessing the premises and the supply of utility facilities and as a result, 

the Petitioners and the sub-lessees were likely to lose business and incur heavy 

losses;  that  in  the  absence  of  a  valid  termination,  the  1st  Respondent  had  no 

ground  whatsoever  to  disrupt  the  operations  and  or  evict  the  Petitioner,  and 

thus,  the  conduct  of  the  Petitioner 

is 

illegal,  unlawful,  ultra  vires, 

unreasonable,  arbitrary  and  contrary  to  the  legitimate  expectation  of  the 

Petitioner  and  in  the  circumstances,    the  Petitioner  is  entitled  to  invoke  the 

jurisdiction of this Court conferred upon it by Article 140 of the Constitution to 

obtain  a  kind  of  relief  as  prayed  for  in  the  prayers  to  the  petition  of  the 

Petitioner against the 1st Respondent. 

It is significant to observe that, the 1st Respondent opted not to file objections 

to the instant application of the Petitioner. However, the 1st Respondent by way 

of  oral  submissions,  raised  a  number  of  preliminary  legal  objections  to  the 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 9 of 22  

 
 
 
 
maintainability  of  the  instant  application  and  to  the  grant  of  interim  order  as 

enumerated above.  

In  view  of  the  paragraph  4  (a),  (b),  (c),  (d),  (e)  and  (f)  of  the  petition,  the 

Petitioner seeks to impugn inter-alia; 

a)  The purported decision of the 1st Respondent to evict the Petitioner from 

the premises in suit; 

b)  The purported decision of the 1st Respondent to charge the Petitioner the 

full monthly lease rental in the absence of adequate supply of electricity 

and provision of other utility services.  

c)  Failure  of  the  1st  Respondent  to  comply  with  the  terms  and  conditions 

contained  in  the  Letter  of  award  read  together  with  the  terms  and  the 

conditions  annexed  to  the  email  dated  30.06.2024  confirming  the 

assignment especially adequate supply of electricity; 

d)  Failure of the 1st Respondent to enter into a lease agreement as set out in 

the terms and conditions stipulated in the Letter of award; 

e)  Failure  of  the  1st  Respondent  to  follow  the  due  process  and/or  rules  of 

natural  justice  and/or  comply  with  the  terms  and  conditions  set  out  in 

the  Letter  of  award  in  purporting  to  evict  and  or  terminate  the 

agreement; and  

f)  The illegal and /or unlawful interference of the 1st Respondent in respect 

of the possession of the Petitioner of the premises;  

Upon a careful reading of the principle relief prayed for by the Petitioner in the 

prayers  (C),  (D),  (E),  (F),  (G),  (H)  and  (I)  to  the  petition  against  the  1st 

Respondent  in  conjunction  with  the  averments  in  paragraph  4  (a)  to  (f)  which 

according  to  the  Petitioner,  constitute  the  scope  of  the  instant  application,  it 

becomes  abundantly,  clear  that  the  Petitioner  had  thereby,  sought  to  base 

those relief mainly on the Letter of award (X3) read together with the terms and 

the conditions (‘X9(i)’) annexed to the email (X9), and thus, source of the relief 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 10 of 22  

 
 
 
 
being the Letter of award (X3) read together with the terms and the conditions 

(‘X9(i)’) annexed to the email (X9). 

Accordingly,  the  pivotal  basis  of  the  challenge  being;  (a)  failure  on  the  part  of 

the  1st  Respondent  to  follow  the  due  process  and/or  rules  of  Natural  Justice 

and/or failure on the part of the 1st Respondent to comply with the terms and 

conditions stipulated in the Letter of award to be read together with the terms 

and  conditions  (‘X9(i)’)  attached  to  the  email  (‘X9’);  (b)  illegal  and  unlawful 

interference by the  1st Respondent with the possession of the Petitioner of the 

premises in suit in contravention of the terms and conditions embodied both in 

the Letter of award and the email. 

It  is  in  this  backdrop  of  the  instant  application,  let  me  now,  and  examine  the 

legal status of the 1st Respondent.  

It is an admitted fact that the 1st Respondent being a company duly registered 

under and in terms of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 (as amended).  

The  1st  Respondent  had  furnished  to  this  Court  along  with  the  motion  dated 

07.03.2025  through  which  its  written  submissions  were  tendered  to  Court,  a 

true  copy  of  Form  39  under  Companies  Act  No.  07  of  2007  annexed  thereto 

marked as ‘R1’ and the Articles of Association of the 1st Respondent company, 

annexed  thereto  marked  as  ‘R1(a)’  together  with  the  special  resolution  of  the 

sole  shareholder  of  the  1st  Respondent  adopted  by  Circulation  in  terms  of 

section 144 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 on 23.09.2022. 

Upon  careful  perusal  of  the  special  resolution  and  the  Articles  of  Association 

‘R1(a)’, it clearly, appears that Secretary to the Treasury being the shareholder 

of  the  1st  Respondent  company;  and  that  the  2nd  Respondent  being  its 

regulatory  entity;  and  that  the  Auditor  General  of  Sri  Lanka  being  the  one 

responsible for auditing the 1st Respondent company.  

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 11 of 22  

 
 
 
 
Furthermore,  in  view  of  the  notification  published  by  his  Excellency-the 

President  of  this  Country  under  his  hand  in  the    Gazette  of  the  Democratic 

Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  –  Extra  Ordinary  bearing  No.  2403/53,  dated 

27.09.2024,  by  virtue  of  the  powers  vested  in  him  by  Article  44(1)  of  the 

Constitution,  a  copy  of  which  was  annexed  to  the  written  submission  of  the 

Petitioner  marked  as  ‘P1’,  the  1st  Respondent  being  Colombo  Lotus  Tower 

Management  Company  (Private)  Limited  had  been  assigned  to  the  Hon. 

Minister 

in  charge  of  Trade,  Commerce,  Food  Security,  Co-Operative 

Development, 

Industry  and  Entrepreneurship 

thus,  bringing 

the  1st 

Respondent under the direct ministerial control.  

Hence, the fact that Secretary to the Treasury being the shareholder of the 1st 

Respondent  company;  the  fact  that  the  2nd  Respondent  being  its  regulatory 

entity; the fact that the Auditor General of Sri Lanka being the one responsible 

for  auditing  the  1st  Respondent  company;  and  that  the  1st  Respondent  being 

Colombo  Lotus  Tower  Management  Company  (Private)  Limited  had  been 

assigned  to  the  Hon.  Minister  in  charge  of  Trade,  Commerce,  Food  Security, 

Co-Operative  Development,  Industry  and  Entrepreneurship  thus,  bringing  the 

1st Respondent under the direct ministerial control, clearly, and unequivocally, 

shows that the 1st Respondent Company though duly established as a limited 

liability company under and in terms of the provisions of the Companies Act of 

07 of 2007, has been given the legal status of a State Agency.  

It clearly, and unequivocally, appears that the Letter of award (‘X3’) to be read 

together  with  the  email  (‘X9’),  is  plainly,  a  contract  mutually,  entered  into 

between  the  Petitioner  and  the  1st  Respondent  on  the  terms  and  conditions 

mutually agreed upon by the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent under the Law 

of Contract and it does not in any manner, prescribe any function or a duty on 

the 1st Respondent having any statutory flavor or any statutory potential.  

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 12 of 22  

 
 
 
 
The vital point to be stressed and emphasized here is that the reliefs prayed for 

by the Petitioner against the 1st Respondent, are entirely, on the footing of the 

contract based on its own terms and conditions embodied therein, which were 

mutually agreed upon by the Petitioner as well as the 1st Respondent.  

Hence, the Petitioner is now, urging that this Court exercising writ jurisdiction 

vested in it, orders the 1st Respondent to perform its obligations laid down on 

the contract mutually entered upon by and between the Petitioner and the 1st 

Respondent in terms of the terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by the 

Petitioner and the 1st Respondent at their free will.  

In the circumstances, the pertinent question is whether the actions of a State 

agency having entered into a contact with a third-party, comes under the wing 

of  “administrative  action”  as  contented  by  the  learned  President’s  Counsel  for 

the  Petitioner,  or  else  whether  the  action  of  the  State  agency  should  be 

regarded as only confined to the terms and conditions embodied in the realms 

of  contract  between  two  private  parties  as  contended  by  the  learned  Counsel 

for the 1st Respondent. 

In  “Constitutional  and  Administrative  law”-  Eleventh  edition,  Wade  and 

Bradley, at pages 714 and 715 observed as follows; 

“……If  an  application 

for  review  concerns  decisions  of  central 

government, or any public authority or official, the Courts readily accept 

jurisdiction in judicial review, except if a reason to the contrary is shown. 

Thus,  decision  taken  under  prerogative  powers  are  subject  to  review, 

unless  in  their  subject  matter  the  Court  considers  them  to  be  non-

justiciable……..Such  decisions  arise  from  an  exercise  of  public  power 

susceptible  to  control  on  principles  of  public  law.  Two  exceptions  to  the 

availability  of  judicial  review  exist.  First,  some  decisions  are  subject  to 

statutory appeals and similar procedures which exclude review under 

RSC Order 53.  Secondly, public authorities are in general subject to 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 13 of 22  

 
 
 
 
the  ordinary  law  of  contract,  tort  and  property.  Since  O’  Reilly  V. 

Mackman,  such  branches  of  law  may  be  termed  ‘private  law’  to 

distinguish  them  from  the  rules  of  ‘public  law’  applied  on  judicial 

review.  An  application  for  judicial  review  may  not  be  used  in  place 

of an ordinary action in contract or tort, just because the defendant 

is  a  public  authority.  Thus,  when  such  an  authority  dismisses  an 

employee, the employee’s primary remedy is a claim for unfair dismissal, 

or  a  claim  under  the  contract  of  employment.  However,  depending  on 

the circumstances, decision by public authorities as employers may 

stem from or involve issues of public law. One test applied has been 

whether the employee’s position is ‘under-pinned’ by statute.  

A difficult question is what constitutes a ‘public body’ for judicial review. 

The  prerogative  orders  were  not,  and  judicial  review  is  not,  available 

against  bodies  such  as  trade  unions  or  companies.  Membership  of  a 

trade union is based on a contract. If a trade unionist complains that his 

expulsion  from  the  union  was  in  breach  of  union  rules  or  infringed 

natural  justice,  he  may  sue  the  union  for  damages  and  an  injunction. 

Bodies  such  as  the  National  Greyhound  Racing  Club  and  the  Jockey 

Club  are  not  subject  to  judicial  review  under  Order  53,  even  if  they 

regulate major areas of sport, but the contractual remedies will often be 

available.  

Most difficult case is that of regulatory bodies which derive their powers 

neither directly from statute nor from contract. Despite having no formal 

legal  status,  the  City  Panel  on  Take-Overs  and  Mergers  is  subject  to 

judicial  review,  since  its  functions  ‘de  facto’  are  in  the  nature  of 

public  law  powers  and  are  indirectly  supported  by  statutory 

sanctions……..” [Emphasis is mine]. 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 14 of 22  

 
 
 
 
H.  W.  R.  Wade  in  his  “Administrative  Law”-  Tenth  Edition  at  Pages  526  and 

527 observes as follows;  

“A  distinction  which  needs  to  be  clarified  is  that,  between  public  duties 

enforceable  by  a  mandatory  order,  which  are  usually  statutory,  and 

duties  arising  merely 

from  the  contract.  Contractual  duties  are 

enforceable  as  matters  of  private  law  by  the  ordinary  contractual 

remedies  such  as  damages,  injunctions,  specific  performance  and 

declaration. They are not enforceable by a mandatory order, which in the 

first place is confined to public duties and secondly, is not granted where 

there are other adequate remedies.” 

Dr. Sunil F. A. Cooray in his “Principles of Administrative Law in Sri Lanka” – 

Third Edition- Volume 2 observes as follows;  

“The  exercise  of  power  arising  purely  from  the  contract  by  one  of  the 

contracting  parties  who  was  a  Public  Authority  cannot  be  quashed  by 

Certiorari whether such contract be a lease of a shop premises by a local 

authority, a contract of employment, or a contract of dealership. A writ of 

Certiorari will not lie to quash a decision of the Maha Sanga Sabha or the 

Sanga  Sabha  of  a  Buddhist  Nikaya  because  such  Sabha  is  domestic 

tribunal  functioning  under  an  agreement  of  parties  and  not  under  any 

statutory provision.”  

The  Supreme  Court  in  a  recent  decision  in  SC/Appeal  43/2013  –  Decided  on 

19.06.2019  cited  with  approval  of  a  passage  from  the  judgement  in 

Gawarammana Vs. Tea Research Board and Others 2003 (3) SLR 120 to the 

following effect; 

“Powers  derived  from  contract  are  matters  of  private  law.  The  fact  that, 

one of the parties to a contact is a public authority is not relevant since 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 15 of 22  

 
 
 
 
the  decision  sought  to  be  quashed  by  way  of  Certiorari  itself  was  not 

made in the exercise of any statutory power.”  

 It was held in Podi Nona Vs. Urban Council of Horana-1981 (2) SLR 141 at 

pages 145 and 146 held that 

“The Relationship  between the parties were contractual and accordingly, 

the  Petitioner  is  not  entitled  to  obtain  a  writ  of  Certiorari.  Another 

remedy was open to her.”  

It was held in Jayaweera Vs. Wijerathne 1985 (2) SLR 413, that,  

“Where the relationship between the parties is purely, contractual one of 

commercial  nature,  neither  Certiorari  nor  Mandamus  will  lie  to  remedy 

grievances arising from an alleged breach of contract or failure to observe 

the  principles  of  Natural  Justice  even  if  one  of  the  parties  is  a  Public 

Authority.” 

See  also;  Dayanthi  Dais  Kaluarachchi  Hitiyawatta    Vs.  Ceylon  Petroleum 

Corporation  and  Other,  Ven.  Walawahangunuwawe  Dharmarathana  Thero 

Vs.  Mihinthale  Pradeshiya  Sabhawa  and  Madugalle  Vs.  National  Housing 

Development Authority and Others (Supra). 

It is trite law that, he who asserts that the relationship between the contracting 

parties  has  any  statutory  flavor  or  it  prescribes  any  functions  or  duty  on  the 

Respondent  having  statutory  potential  in  order  to  bring  its  case  within  the 

purview  of  writ  jurisdiction  of  this  Court  vested  in  it  under  Article  140  of  the 

Constitution,  must  establish  as  required  by  section  3  of  the  Evidence 

Ordinance  to  be  read  with  sections  101  and  103  thereof,  that  the  functions 

and/or  duty  complained  of,  had  any  statutory  flavor  or  it  prescribes  any 

functions  or  duty  on  the  Respondent  having  statutory  potential,  nevertheless, 

they  are  arising  out  of  a  contract  mutually  entered  into  between  the  parties 

under the Law of Contract.  

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 16 of 22  

 
 
 
 
As observed by me elsewhere in this judgment, the Letter of award (‘X3’) to be 

read together with the email (‘X9’), is admittedly, a contract mutually, entered 

into between the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent on the terms and conditions 

mutually agreed upon by the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent under the Law 

of Contract and it does not in any manner, prescribe any function or a duty on 

the 1st Respondent having any statutory flavor or any statutory potential.  

However,  upon  a  careful  scrutiny  of  the  averments  in  the  petition  of  the 

Petitioner,  the  submissions  both  oral  and  written,  made  by  the  learned 

President’s  Counsel  before  us  at  the  hearing  into  the  preliminary  legal 

objections so raised by the 1st Respondent, in its correct perspective, it clearly, 

and  unequivocally,  appears  to  me  that  the  Petitioner  had  not  in  any  manner, 

established to the satisfaction of this Court that although, the Letter of award 

(‘X3’)  to  be  read  together  with  the  email  (‘X9’),  is  admittedly,  a  contract 

mutually,  entered  into  between  the  Petitioner  and  the  1st  Respondent  on  the 

terms  and  conditions  mutually,  agreed  upon  by  the  Petitioner  and  the  1st 

Respondent  under  the  Law  of  Contract,  nevertheless,    it  does  prescribe  a 

function  or  a  duty  complained  of,  on  the  1st  Respondent  having  any  statutory 

flavor  or  any  statutory  potential  thus,  bringing  its  case  within  the  purview  of 

writ jurisdiction of this Court vested in it under Article 140 of the Constitution, 

as  required  by  section  3  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  to  be  read  with  sections 

101 and 103 thereof.  

Instead, what the Petitioner attempted to do was to make an effort to enlighten 

this Court with the law relating to a suit where, although, a matter complained 

of,  arises from a contract mutually, entered into between the parties to a suit 

under  Article  140  of  the  Constitution  on  the  terms  and  conditions  mutually, 

agreed upon by the parties thereto under the Law of Contract, nevertheless,  it 

does  prescribe  a  function  or  a  duty  complained  of  on  the  other  contracting 

party  being  a  State  agency,  having  any  statutory  flavor  or  any  statutory 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 17 of 22  

 
 
 
 
potential  thus,  bringing  its  case  within  the  purview  of  writ  jurisdiction  of  this 

Court vested in it under Article 140 of the Constitution.  

I would therefore, hold that, the relationship between the Petitioner and the 1st 

Respondent  is  purely,  contractual  arising  out  of  the  said  contract  having  no 

statutory  flavor  or  having  any  statutory  potential  necessary  to  bring    its  case 

within  the  purview  of  writ  jurisdiction  of  this  Court  vested  in  it  under  Article 

140 of the Constitution as rightly, contended by the learned Counsel for the 1st 

Respondent by way of the preliminary legal objection (a) as enumerated above, 

namely; that the relationship between the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent is 

purely contractual. 

It  is  settled  law  that  if,  the  complaint  is  with  regard  to  a  breach  by  a 

contracting party being a State agency, of a term and/or a condition embodied 

in a contract mutually, agreed upon by the parties to a suit under Article 140 

of  the  Constitution,  the  proper  remedy  being  an  action  for  a  declaration  or 

damages together with an application for an injunction as the case may be,  in 

the absence of a relationship between them, having a statutory flavor or having 

a  statutory  potential  in  case  of  one  party  thereto  being  a  State  agency.  In  a 

situation  as  such,  the  Court  will  not  as  a  rule,  quash  the  decision  on  the 

ground that natural justice has not been observed as laid down by Court in the 

decision  in  Gawarammana  Vs.  Tea  Research  Board  and  Others  and 

Jayaweera vs. Wijerathne (Supra)  

In view of the foregoing, I would hold that the preliminary legal objection (d) as 

enumerated above, too, is tenable both in fact and law and therefore, is entitled 

to succeed both in fact and law.  

In the circumstances, I would hold that the preliminary legal objections (a) and 

(d)  as  enumerated  above,  are  tenable  both  in  fact  and  law  and  therefore,  are 

entitled to succeed both in fact and law.  

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 18 of 22  

 
 
 
 
I would therefore, uphold the both.  

In the result, I would hold that the instant application should be dismissed  in-

limine on those preliminary legal objections alone.  

Since,  it  appears  to  me  that  the  preliminary  legal  objections  (b)  and  (c) 

enumerated  above,  too,  are  interwoven,  I  would  propose  to  deal  both  of  them 

together for convenience and clarity.  

The Petitioner could have sought specific performance for their purported 

grievance;  

b)  The  Petitioner  could  have  sought  specific  performance  for  their 

purported grievance;  

c)  Without  prejudice  to  the  submission  set  out  in  (b)  above,  the 

Petitioner could have sought damages for their purported grievance; 

In  “Constitutional  and  Administrative  law”-  Eleventh  edition,  Wade  and 

Bradley, at pages 715 observed as follows; 

“An  application  for  judicial  review  may  not  be  used  in  place  of  an 

ordinary  action  in  contract  or  tort,  just  because  the  defendant  is  a 

public authority.” 

It was held further in Gawarammana Vs. Tea Research Board and Others  at 

page 124 (Supra) that,  

“As  such,  judicial  review  would  not  be  appropriate  remedy  since 

there  was  an  alternative  and  more  effective  remedy  available  from 

an  Industrial  Tribunal.  The  application  for  judicial  review  would 

therefore be dismissed.” 

Upon a careful scrutiny of the reliefs prayed for in prayers (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), 

and  (I)  to  the  petition,  it  clearly,  appears  that  they  can  more  effectively,  be 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 19 of 22  

 
 
 
 
perused and enforced by way of a decree for specific performance in a properly 

constituted civil action in a District Court of competent jurisdiction while, the 

relief  prayed  for  in  prayer  (H)  to  the  petition  can  more  effectively,  be  perused 

and enforced by way of a possessory decree under section 4 of the Prescription 

Ordinance in a properly constituted civil action in a District Court of competent 

jurisdiction  together  with  injunctive  relief  as  prayed  for  in prayers  (J)  to  (L)  to 

the Petition based on the Contract mutually entered upon by and between the 

Petitioner  and  the  1st  Respondent  founded  on  the  Letter  of  award  (X3)  to  be 

read  together  with  the  email  (X9).  Or  else,  the  Petitioner  could  have  pursued 

more  effectively,  an  action  in  a  District  Court  of  competent  jurisdiction  for 

damages for any alleged breach of the Contract mutually entered upon by and 

between the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent founded on the Letter of award 

(X3) to be read together with the email (X9). 

In the light of the facts and law set out above, I would hold that, judicial review 

would not be an appropriate remedy since, there was an alternative and more 

effective  remedy  available  to  the  Petitioner  under  the  Common  Law  in  respect 

of  any  alleged  breach  of  the  contract  and  the  application  for  judicial  review 

would therefore, essentially, be dismissed in-limine.   

In  view  of  the  foregoing,  I  would  hold  that  the  preliminary  legal  objections  (b) 

and  (c)  as  enumerated  above,  too,  are  tenable  both  in  fact  and  law  and 

therefore, are entitled to succeed both in fact and law.  

I would therefore, uphold the both.  

In the result, I would hold that the instant application should be dismissed  in-

limine on those preliminary legal objections too.  

In  view  of  the  foregoing,  I  would  if  I  may  say  so  respectfully,    hold  that  the 

authorities  cited  and  the  passages  quoted  from  the  learned  authors  in  the 

submissions  both  oral  and  written  (Supra)  by  the  learned  President’s  Counsel 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 20 of 22  

 
 
 
 
for the Petitioner in countering the preliminary legal objections so raised by the 

learned Counsel for the 1st Respondent with regard to the maintainability of the 

instant application, are of no assistance whatsoever to establish the respective 

positions  taken  up  by  the  learned  President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  in 

countering the same at the hearing into the preliminary legal objections before 

us.   

In  the  light  of  the,  facts  and  law  set  out  above,  I  would  hold,  that  all  the 

preliminary legal objections enumerated above as (a), (b), (c) and (d) are entitled 

to succeed both in fact and in law.  

In  the  circumstances,  I  would  uphold  all  the  preliminary  legal  objections 

enumerated above as (a), (b), (c) and (d). 

In the result, I would hold that the instant application of the Petitioner ought to 

be dismissed in-limine. 

Finally,  let  me  deal  with  the  contention  raised  by  the  learned  President’s 

Counsel for the Petitioner on the legitimate expectation alleged to have accrued 

to the Petitioner on the contract in question as forming the principle basis for 

the array of reliefs sought in the Petition by the Petitioner. 

It was an admitted fact that, the Petitioner had failed to pay monthly rental due 

under  the  lease  of  premises  in  suit  which  clearly,  and  unequivocally,  shows 

that  the  Petitioner  had  failed  to  fulfill  its  obligation  to  pay  lease  rental  as 

mutually  agreed  upon  by  the  Petitioner  and  the  1st  Respondent  in  the  said 

contract.  In  a  situation  as  such,  the  pertinent  question  is;  Can  the  Petitioner 

who breached the covenant as to the payment of lease rental due there-under 

in respect of the premises in suit, now, claim legitimate expectation under the 

very  same  contract  as  forming  the  basis  for  the  instant  application?.  I  think 

certainly, not, for; the Petitioner has not come to Court with clean hands in as 

much-as  in  an  application  of  this  kind,  conduct  and  the  dealings  of  the 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 21 of 22  

 
 
 
 
Petitioner should strictly, be taken into consideration by Court in determining 

as to whether the Petitioner is entitled to the relief sought by him by reason of 

the  fact  that  relief  sought  by  the  Petitioner  under  Article  140  of  the 

Constitution is a prerogative and discretionary remedy vested in this Court.  

In view of the foregoing, I would hold that, the Petitioner is not entitled to found 

his relief sought from this Court under Article 140 of the Constitution against 

the  1st  Respondent  entirely,  based  on  the  legitimate  expectation  of  any  kind 

either  substantive,  or  procedural,  alleged  to  have  accrued  to  the  Petitioner 

under the said contract as forming the basis of the instant application.  

In  view  of  the  facts  and  the  law  set  out  above,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant 

application is not entitled to succeed both in fact and law.  

In the result, I would dismiss the instant application with costs payable by the 

Petitioner  to  the  1st  Respondent  only,  upholding  all  the  preliminary  legal 

objections  so  raised  by  the  learned  Counsel  for  the  1st  Respondent  as  to  the 

maintainability of the instant application.   

In  the  circumstances,  I  would  vacate  and  set  aside  all  the  interim  reliefs 

already granted by this Court to the Petitioner.  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J. 

I agree. 

PRESIDENT (ACTING) OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

CA/WRT/0085/2025 

Page 22 of 22  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
