CA Bail 0480-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Application No.                      Police Narcotics Bureau, 

CA Bail 0480/2024 

Colombo-01. 

MC Maligakanda   

                   COMPLAINANT 

Case No.38618/2024 

Vs. 

      1. Dona Chandima Gammanpilage 

      2. Gammanpilage Dona Dhanuski 

SUSPECTS       

AND NOW BETWEEN 

 Gammanpilage Nirmala 

No. 07, Ketharama Temple Road, 

Maligawatte, Colombo-10.   

 Vs. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
CA Bail 0480-2024 

1.  Th Officer-in-Charge 

Police Narcotics Bureau 

Colombo-01. 

2.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENTS 

Dona Chandima Gammanpilage 

(Detained in Remand Prison) 

1st SUSPECT-RESPONDENT 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Shamindra  Rodrigo  with  Eranda 

Sinharage for the Petitioner.  

Tharaka  Kodagoda,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

25/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

19/05/2025. 

***************************** 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
         
CA Bail 0480-2024 

           ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the sister of the 1st Suspect (Hereinafter referred to as 

the Suspect) named in the Magistrate Court of Maligakanda bearing case 

No. B 38618/2024.  

According  to  the  B  report  submitted  by  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau, 

Cololmbo-1, the Suspect and another was arrested upon an investigation 

carried out consequent to a tip off received by the officers attached to the 

Police Narcotics Bureau. As per the information when  WSI/ Chandima 

checked the Suspect found a parcel under the right-side armpit  of the 

Suspect.  As  the  parcel  contained  some  substance  which  reacted  for 

Methamphetamine,  the  lady  officer  had  arrested  the  Suspect  with  the 

assistance of others. Upon receiving further information another woman 

also arrested and recovered some substance. Both had been handed over 

to  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau  for  further  investigation.  The  gross 

quantity of the contraband recovered from the Suspect is weighed about 

48.900 grams.    

Upon  a  Court  order  the  contraband  had  been  sent  to  the  Government 

Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst Report dated 

29.02.2024, 10.24 grams of pure Methamphetamine had been detected 

in parcel sent for analysis.        

The Suspect was produced along with another in the Magistrate Court of 

Maligakanda and facts were reported under Section 54A (b) and (d) of the 

Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act 

No.13  of  1984.Upon  a  Court  order  the  Suspect  was  placed  under  a 

detention  order  to  facilitate  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau  to  conduct 

further investigation with regard to the detection. 

The  Petitioner  alleges  that  the  Suspect  along  with  another  were  taken 

into custody by the police on a mere conjecture without any reasonable 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 0480-2024 

suspicion.  The  Petitioner  further  alleges  that  no  Methamphetamine  or 

any other contraband had been detected from the Suspect. 

The Petitioner submit that the Suspect had been in remand for little over 

19 months. Indictment has not been filed in the High Court. 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  Non-existence of a prima-facie case against the Suspect. 

2.  Improbability of the version of the prosecution. 

3.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for little over 19 months. 

4.  The Suspect is 51 years old and the sole breadwinner of the family. 

At  present  the  members  of  the  family  are  undergoing  untold 

hardship due to the incarceration of the Suspect.   

The State Counsel submits that the dossier of the investigation has not 

been received by the Attorney General’s Department yet.  

The Suspect is in remand little over 19 months. According to Government 

Analyst Report, the pure quantity of Methamphetamine detected from the 

possession of the Suspect is 10.24 grams.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0480-2024 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production by the Government Analyst is 10.24 grams. Hence, this court 

has jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Suspect in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

Although 19 months had been passed after her arrest, the trial before the 

High  Court  has  not  been  commenced.  Expeditious  trial  is  an  integral 

element of a fair trial.  

The Suspect had committed the offence while she was on bail for a similar 

offence.  An  indictment  for  possession  of  41.605  grams  of  Heroin  is 

pending against the Suspect in the High Court of Colombo. Further she 

had been sentenced for 01-year rigorous imprisonment suspended for 05 

years for the possession of 50 grams of Cannabis Saliva L. 

The  learned  State  Counsel  very  correctly  submitted  that  the  Petitioner 

had not come before this Court with clean hands, as she suppressed the 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0480-2024 

information  regarding  the  pending  similar  matter  before  the  Colombo 

High Court and previous conviction of the Suspect. 

A court can consider evidence in a bail inquiry. During a bail hearing, 

the  court  typically  evaluates  various  factors  to  determine  whether  a 

Suspect should be granted bail, such as the risk of flight, the likelihood 

of  reoffending,  and  the  safety  of  the  community.  The  court  may  also 

review  evidence  related  to  the  Suspect’s  criminal  history,  ties  to  the 

community, and the specifics of the current charges. 

Ultimately, the court’s role during a bail inquiry is to weigh the available 

evidence to decide if the defendant can be trusted to return for trial or if 

they pose a danger to public safety. 

In  this  case  the  Accused  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that this is not appropriate case 

to  consider  the  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the 

investigations  at  this  stage.  It  can  only  be  tested  at  the  trial  upon  the 

witnesses being cross examined and re-examined.  

 In  Ranil  Charuka  Kulatunga  v.  Attorney  General  CA  (PHC)  APN 

134/2015 the court held that: 

“The quantity of cocaine involved in this case is 62.847 grams, 

which is a commercial quantity. If Petitioner is convicted, the 

punishment  is  death  or  life  imprisonment.  Under  these 

circumstances, it is prudent to conclude the trial early while 

the Petitioner is kept in custody.” 

In  this  case  the  pure  Heroin  detected  is  10.24  grams.  Considering  the 

seriousness  of  the  sentence  prescribed  under  the  Poison,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, there is a high risk of absconding. Further, 

the Accused has committed these offences while a similar case is pending 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0480-2024 

before the High Court of Colombo and a previous conviction, which is a 

clear testament of her propensity in committing drug related offences.   

Hence, I do not consider the delay little over 19 months in remand falls 

into  the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of Heroin detected, the charges going to be framed against the Suspect, 

the pending case and previous conviction and other circumstances of the 

case,  I  consider  this  is  not  an  appropriate  case  to  sanction  bail  to  the 

Suspect at this stage. Hence, I refuse to release the Suspect on bail. 

Hence, this Bail Application is dismissed. 

The Registrar of this Court is directed to this Bail Order to the Magistrate 

Court  of  Maligakanada  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Narcotics 

Bureau, Colombo-01. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
