CA Bail 0427-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 

Application No.                      Lanka 

CA Bail 0427/2024 

COMPLAINANT    

                Vs. 

High Court of Homagama   1. Lanka Keerthi Bandaranayake   

Case No: 82/2022 

 Abeynayake 

      2. Vidanage Don Isuru Prabath  

Vidanarachchi 

      3. Samaratunga Arachchilage Don 

Chaminda Samarasinghe 

      4. Don Thanuja Ranasinghe (Deceased) 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

ACCUSED       

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                             
CA Bail 0427-2024 

Hewa Fonsekalage Chathuri Dilshani  

Fonseka 

No.25/2, Galwala Road, 

Wellawatta.  

     Vs. 

PETITIONER 

1.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

2.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Police Narcotics Bureau, 

Colombo-01. 

3.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Headquarter of Special Task Force, 

Gonahena, Kadawatha.  

RESPONDENTS 

Vidanage Don Isuru Prabath 

Vidanarachchi 

(Detained in Colombo Remand Prison) 

2nd ACCUSED-RESPONDENT 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
 
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0427-2024 

COUNSEL                    : 

Kasun  Liyanage  with  Thilakkana 

Indunil for the Petitioner.  

Tharaka  Kodagoda,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

26/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

21/05/2025. 

***************************** 

        ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the wife of the 2nd Accused (Hereinafter referred to as 

the  Accused)  named  in  the  High  Court of  Homagama  bearing  case  No. 

HC 82/2022.  

According  to  the  B  report  submitted  by  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau, 

Cololmbo-1,  the  Accused  and  03  others  were  arrested  upon  an 

investigation carried out consequent to a tip off received by the officers 

attached  to  the  Special  Task  Force,  Gonahena  Camp.  As  per  the 

information  when  the  STF  officers  entered  the  suspected  house,  found 

the Accused with three other persons seated together and packing some 

substance.  As  the  substance  reacted  for  Heroin,  all  were  arrested  and 

handed  over  to  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau,  Colombo-01  for  further 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
 
 
CA Bail 0427-2024 

investigation. The gross quantity of the contraband weighed about 1.068 

kilograms.    

Upon  a  Court  order  the  contraband  had  been  sent  to  the  Government 

Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst Report dated 

29.10.2021, 572.16 grams of pure Heroin (Diacetylmorphine) had been 

detected in parcel sent for analysis.        

The Accused was produced along with others in the Magistrate Court of 

Kesbewa  and  facts  were  reported  under  Section  54A  (d)  and  (b)  of  the 

Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act 

No.13 of 1984. 

Upon a Court order the Accused and three others were placed under a 

detention  order  to  facilitate  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau  to  conduct 

further investigation with regard to the detection. 

The Petitioner alleges that her Accused-husband along with three others 

were taken into custody by the Special Task Force on a mere conjecture 

without any reasonable suspicion. The Petitioner further alleges that no 

Heroin or any other contraband had been detected from the Accused and 

the others. At present the 4th Accused named in the indictment had been 

passed way.  

The  Petitioner  submit  that  the  Accused  and  two  others  had  been  in 

remand little over 4 years. Indictment has already been sent to the High 

Court of Homagama but trial is not commenced yet.  

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  Non-existence of a prima-facie case against the Accused. 

2.  Improbability of the version of the prosecution. 

3.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for little over 4 years. 

4.  Existence  of  material  contradictions  in  the  report  filed  by  the 

investigation authority. 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0427-2024 

5.  No  previous  case  recorded  against  the  2nd  Accused  and  has  no 

pending cases. 

6.  The Accused is the sole breadwinner of the family.   

The State opposing to bail submitted that the dossier of the investigations 

has been received by the Attorney General’s Department and registered 

under CR3/77/2022. After the consideration of the same an indictment 

against the Accused along with 03 other had been filed in the High Court 

of  Homagama  under  case  No.  HC  82/2022.    Hence,  Learned  State 

Counsel submitted that the delay is not an exceptional circumstance to 

be considered to enlarge the Accused on bail. Further, the time spent for 

preparing 

the 

indictment  does  not  constitute  an  exceptional 

circumstance.  

The Accused is in remand little over 4 years. According to Government 

Analyst Report, the pure quantity of Heroin detected from the possession 

of the 2nd Suspect and others is 572.6 grams.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0427-2024 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In this case, the pure quantity of Heroin detected in the production by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  572.16  Kilograms.  Hence,  this  court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Accused in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

Although 4 years passed after his arrest, the trial before the High Court 

of Homagama has not been commenced. Expeditious trial is an integral 

element of a fair trial.  

Indictment  was  served  on  the  Accused  on  22.09.2022.  Due  to  various 

reasons the trial was postponed. The Accused has no previous or pending 

case in any of the court in Sri Lanka.   

A court can consider evidence in a bail inquiry. During a bail hearing, 

the  court  typically  evaluates  various  factors  to  determine  whether  a 

Suspect should be granted bail, such as the risk of flight, the likelihood 

of  reoffending,  and  the  safety  of  the  community.  The  court  may  also 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0427-2024 

review  evidence  related  to  the  Suspect’s  criminal  history,  ties  to  the 

community, and the specifics of the current charges. 

Ultimately, the court’s role during a bail inquiry is to weigh the available 

evidence to decide if the defendant can be trusted to return for trial or if 

they pose a danger to public safety. 

In  this  case  the  Accused  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(d)  and  (b)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance  as  amended  by  the  Act  No.13  of  1984.  Above  cited  offences 

are no doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offence alone cannot 

form a ground to refuse bail. In considering these matters, the court must 

bear in mind the presumption of innocence. 

Further, bail should never be withheld as punishment. Granting of bail 

is  primarily  at  the  discretion  of  the  Court.  The  discretion  should  be 

exercised  with  due care  and  caution  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 

circumstances of each case separately.    

Considering  all  these  factors  into  account,  especially  the  period  in 

remand, the uncertainty of commencement of trial in the High Court, the 

circumstances  of  his  arrest  and  other  circumstances  of  the  case,  I 

consider this an appropriate case to grant bail to the Accused. Hence, I 

order the Accused be granted bail with following strict conditions. 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.200,000/=.  

2.  To provide 02 sureties. They must sign a bond of two million each. 

3.  The  Petitioner  and  the  sureties  must  reside  in  the  address given 

until conclusion of his case. 

4.  Not to approach any prosecution witnesses directly or indirectly or 

to interfere with. 

5.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel document. The Controller of the Immigration and Emigration 

is informed of the travel ban on the Accused. 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0427-2024 

6.  To report to the  Police Narcotics Bureau, Colombo-01  on the 2nd 

and last Sunday of every month between 9am to 1pm. 

7.  Any breach of these conditions is likely to result in the cancellation 

of his bail. 

The Bail is allowed and the Learned High Court Judge of Homagama is 

hereby  directed  to  enlarge  the  Accused  on  bail  on  the  above  bail 

conditions. 

The Registrar of this Court is directed to this order to the High Court of 

Homagama,  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Polce  Narcotics  Bureau, 

Cololmbo-01. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

8 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
