IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 

LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for  Revision 

made  under  Article  138  of  the  Constitution, 

read together with Section 364 of the Code of 

Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979. 

                                                               Hon. Attorney General 

                                                               Attorney General’s Department, 

                                                               Colombo 12  

Court of Appeal No:                                                                                  Complainant             

CA (PHC) APN  CPA-168/2017                  Vs. 

High Court Balapitiya  

Case No. 584/03           

                                                            1. Thusaya Hakuru Weerarathne  

                                                             2. Puncha Hakuru Gunarathne Alias Soththiya 

                                                                                                               Accused 

                                                              AND NOW 

                                                              Hon. Attorney General,  

                                                               Attorney General’s Department, 

                                                               Colombo 12.  

                                                                                               Complainant - Petitioner 

                                                                 Vs.  

                                                             1. Thusaya Hakuru Weerarathne  

                                                             2. Puncha Hakuru Gunarathne Alias Soththiya 

                                                                                               Accused -  Respondents  

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
 
Before:        B. Sasi Mahendran, J.         

                    Amal Ranaraja, J.            

Counsels:     Suharshi Herath DSG for the  Complainant Petitioner  

                     Geeth Karunarathna for the 2nd Accused - Respondent  

 Argued On:  18.03.2025 

Written  

Submissions:  06.05.2025 (by the Petitioner) 

On                    05.05.2025 (by the 2nd Accused-Respondent)  

Order On:     14.05.2025 

B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

ORDER 

This is a revision application filed by the Petitioner, namely the Attorney General seeking 

to  set  aside  the  order  of  the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  dated  13.09.2017  in  the  case 

bearing No. 583/03.  

According  to  the  Petitioner,  the  Accused-  Respondents  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 

Respondents) were indicted in the High Court of Balapitiya on the count of committing 

the offence of murder of one Ilandaridewa Neetha Kusumalatha on 08.04.1999 punishable 

under Section 296 of the Penal Code. 

As  stated  by  the  Petitioner,  after  the  case  was  fixed  for  trial  de  nova,  on  23.04.2014, 

evidence of the prosecution witness Hewahakuru Sisilin, who was the eye witness of the 

incident  was  led.  The  Petitioner  states  that  according  to  the  evidence  available,  the 

deceased's  nephew  had  been  allegedly  killed  by  a  group  of  persons  alleged  to  have 

including the two Respondents in this case on 07.04.1999. Thereafter, the deceased had 

complained about this murder implicating the Respondents. On 08.04.1999, the deceased 

and PW1 went to send a telegram to a relative inform g about the murder. On their way, 

the Respondents have approached them and attacked the deceased with a knife. During 

the attack, PW1 had attempted to save the deceased and as a result, PW1 had received 

cut injuries in her fingers. Thereafter, PW1 had informed the Police about the attack.  

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
According to the Petitioner, the Learned High Court Judge acquitted the Respondents on 

15.09.2017 based on the application made by the defence under Section 200 (1) of the Code 

of Criminal Procedure Act.  

The Petitioner being aggrieved by this order, filed this revision application in this Court 

seeking to set aside the said order of the Learned High Court Judge.  

The Petitioner has mentioned the reasons for them to invoke the revisionary jurisdiction 

of this Court which are as follows; 

1.  The  Learned  High  Court  Judge  erred  in  law  and  in  fact  in  considering  the 

aggravating factors and made an illegal order, which warrants a conviction for the 

Respondents. 

2.  The Learned High Court Judge has failed to place the evidence of the case in its 

proper perspective and thereby made an illegal order. 

3.  The Learned High Court Judge has misled himself in analysing the evidence of the 

said eye witness Hewahakuru Sisilin. 

4.  The  Learned  High  Court  Judge  has  given  a  disproportionate  weight  when 

evaluating the contradictions and omissions which have been pointed out by the 

defence during the cross examination of the said eye witness. 

5.  The Learned High Court Judge has failed to cautiously analyse the evidence of the 

officer who gave evidence in place of the main investigating officer. 

6.  Learned High Court Judge when evaluating the evidence of the said eye witness, 

seems to have expected extreme consistency (photographic memory of the incident) 

without taking into consideration the fact that the witness was over 75 years of 

age at the time she was testifying and that she was giving evidence after almost 

15 years from the date of the incident. 

According to the Petitioner, the Court had acquitted the Respond on the basis that there 

are a number of contradictions in the evidence given by PW1. Those are the exceptional 

circumstances  pleaded  by  the  Petitioner  to  invoke  the  revisionary  jurisdiction  of  this 

Court.  

When  the  matter  came  up  on  18.03.2025,  the  Counsel  for  the  2nd  Respondent  raised  a 

preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of this application on the basis that 

under  Section  15 of  the  Judicature  Act,  since  there is  an  alternative  remedy  available, 

this revision application cannot be maintained.  Also, she had brought to the notice that 

there was a defect in the affidavit.  

Page 3 of 6 

 
According to Section 15 of the Judicature Act.  

“The Attorney-General may appeal to the Court of Appeal in the following cases:- 

a) from an order of acquittal by a High Court-  

(i) on a question of law alone in a trial with or without a jury;  

(ii) on a question of fact alone or on a question of mixed law and fact 

with leave of the Court of Appeal first had and obtained in a trial 

without jury;  

(b)  in  all  cases  on  the  ground  of  inadequacy  or  illegality  of  the  sentence 

imposed or illegality of any other order of the High Court.”  

When we consider the averments in the petition, we observe that the main gravamen of 

the Petitioner is that the Learned High Court Judge had disbelieved PW1 on the basis of 

the  contradictions  in  her  evidence  which  indicates  that  this  application  is  based  on 

questions of mixed law and fact.  

Therefore, there is a remedy available for the Petitioner to challenge the impugned order. 

Our Courts have held that when there is an effective alternative remedy available,  the 

Courts are reluctant to exercise the revisionary jurisdiction. 

There are no averments in the petition that the Petitioner has applied to obtain the order 

within the specific time period. Further, we find that the said order does not shock the 

conscience  of  the  Court.  The  Learned  High  Court  Judge  has  indicated  the  reasons  for 

disbelieving PW1. 

“අවසාන  වශයෙන්  යෙෙ  අධිකරණෙ  නිරීක්ෂණෙ  කරනු  ලබන්යන්  පැ.සා.  01  යේ  සාක්ිෙ    යෙෙ 

අධිකරණෙ ඉදිරියේ යෙන ලෙ අනිකුත් ස්වාධීන සාක්ිකරුවන්යේ සාක්ිවලින් තහවුරු වී යනාෙැති බව 

ෙ. වියශ්ෂයෙන්ෙ පැ. සා. 05  සහ පැ. සා. 07  යේ සාක්ි ෙගින් පැ.සා. 01  විසින් යෙෙ අධිකරණෙ 

ඉදිරියේ යෙන ලෙ සාක්ිෙ තහවුරු වනවාට වඩා පැ.සා. 01 යේ සාක්ිෙ බිඳ වැටීෙට ලක් කර ඇති බව 

ෙ. 

පැ.සා.  01  යේ  සාක්ිෙ  යෙෙ  අධිකරණෙ  විසින්  පිළිගැනීෙට  ප්‍රතික්යෂ්ප  කර  ඇති  අවස්ථාවකදී 

පැමිණිල්ල  විසින්  යෙයහෙවන  ලෙ  අනිකුත්  සාක්ිකරුවන්යේ  සාක්ි  විශ්යල්ෂණෙ  කිරීෙ  අනවශය 

බවට  යෙෙ  අධිකරණෙ  තීරණෙ  කරනු  ලබයි.  එයලස  තීරණෙ  කරනු  ලබන්යන්  පැමිණිල්ල  විසින් 

යෙයහෙවන ලෙ අනිකුත් සිෙලු සාක්ිකරුවන්යේ සාක්ි යෙෙ අධිකරණෙ ඉදිරියේ පැමිණිල්ල විසින් 

යෙයහෙවා  ඇත්යත්  පැ.සා.  01  විසින්  යෙෙ  අධිකරණෙ  ඉදිරියේ  යෙන  ලෙ  සාක්ිෙ  තහවුරු  කිරීෙ 

සඳහාෙ.” 

Page 4 of 6 

 
This  opinion  was  formed  by  the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  who  had  the  advantage  of 

observing the demeanor and the deportment of the witnesses. We are mindful that the 

credibility  of  a  witness  is  clearly  a  question  of  fact  and  an  appellate  Court  would  be 

reluctant to interfere with a finding of a fact by a trial Court. 

 I am mindful of the sentiments expressed by His Lordship Wood Renton CJ in Fradd v. 

Brown & Co. Ltd (1915) 18 NLR 302 at 304; 

“The  House  of  Lords,  in  Montgomery  v.  Wallace-James  [(1904)  A.  C.  73.],  has 

pointed  out  the  weight  that  is  due  in  all  matters  affecting  the  credibility  of 

witnesses  to  the  decision of  the  tribunal which  has had  the  advantage  of  seeing 

and hearing them, and there are innumerable-local judgments to the same effect. 

But it must be remembered that the law gives to litigants in this Colony a right of 

appeal, such cases as the present, against the finding of the court of first instance, 

even on questions of credibility, and in Khee Sit Nob v. Lim Thean Teng [(1912) 

A.C. 323] the Privy Council, while affirming the general rule above mentioned, was 

careful  to  explain  that  it  would  not  be  applicable  where,  in  deciding  between 

witnesses,  the,  trial  Judge  had  clearly  failed  on  some  point  to  take  account  of 

particular circumstances or probabilities material to an estimate of the evidence, 

or had given credence to testimony, perhaps plausibly put forward, which turned 

out  on  further  analysis  to  be  substantially  inconsistent  with  itself  or  with 

indisputable facts. The Supreme Court of this Colony has repeatedly interfered on 

such grounds as these with the findings of courts of first instance on pure questions 

of fact, and even credibility.”  

Generally,  the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  who  has  the  opportunity  of  observing  the 

demeanor  and  the  deportment  of  the  witnesses  comes  to  a  finding  with  regard  to  the 

credibility of the witness. 

Determination of the credibility of the witness could not be challenged by way of revision 

as our Courts generally allow the revision application if the Petitioner satisfies the Court 

that said order is illegal or irregular.  

In Athurupana v. Premasinghe, SC Appeal No. 21/202, Decided on 14.05.2004, (2004 BLR 

60 at page 63), His Lordship Sarath N. Silva, C.J held that; 

“Section 753 of the Civil Procedure Code which gives the ambit of the revisionary 

jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal empowers the Court to examine the record "for 

the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any judgment or 

Page 5 of 6 

 
order….....or  as  to  the  regularity  of  the  proceedings"  and  thereupon  "pass  any 

judgment or make any order as the interests of justice may require." 

The  section  has  three  elements  that  constitute  the  basis  of  the  exercise  of 

revisionary jurisdiction. They are: 

i. 

ii. 

the legality or propriety of the judgment or order called in question; 

the regularity of the proceedings;  

iii. 

the need to pass any judgment or make any order in the interests 

of justice. 

An  examination  of  these  elements  demonstrate  that  every  illegality, 

impropriety  or  irregularity  does  not  warrant  the  exercise  of  revisionary 

jurisdiction.  Such  jurisdiction  will  be  exercised  only  where  the  illegality, 

impropriety or irregularity in the proceedings has resulted in a miscarriage of 

justice, by the party affected being denied what is lawfully and justly due to 

that  party.  In  such  event  the  Court  will  in  revision  set  right  the  illegality, 

impropriety or irregularity by passing "any judgment of making any order as 

interests of justice may require.” 

In the present application, the Petitioner has failed to establish that the said order of the 

Learned High Court Judge is illegal or irregular. Further, there is a right available for 

the Petitioner to invoke the appellate jurisdiction in terms of Section 15 of the Judicature 

Act.  

For the above-mentioned reasons, we dismiss the application without costs. 

Amal Ranaraja, J. 

I AGREE  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
