IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

BAL-0279-24 

In the matter of an Application for Bail 

under  and  in  terms  of  Section  83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs  Ordinance  No.  17  of  1929  as 

amended  by  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 

41 of 2022. 

Officer in Charge, 

Colombo Crimes Division, 

Dematagoda. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 

                             Complainant 

CA/BAL/0279/2024 

Vs. 

High Court of Negombo 

          Omalpage Dinesh Harsha Ranasinghe. 

Case No. 80/23                                                                         2nd Accused        

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Omalpage Dinesh Harsha Ranasinghe. 

       Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Officer in Charge, 

Colombo Crimes Division, 

Dematagoda.    

 Complainant-Respondent 

2.  Hon. Attorney General, 

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo 12.  

      2nd Respondent 

Page 1 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
 
 
 
BAL-0279-24 

BEFORE :   

P. KUMARARATNAM, J.  

K.M.G.H. KULATUNGA, J. 

COUNSEL:   

Neranjan Jayasinghe with Randunu Heellage for the  

Petitioner.  

Wishwa Wijesuriya, SC for the Respondents. 

INQUIRY ON:  

03.03.2025  

DECIDED ON: 

04.04.2025 

K.M.G.H. KULATUNGA, J. 

ORDER 

1.  The  petitioner  has  preferred  this  application  seeking  bail  for  himself 

under  the  provisions  of  Section  83(2)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance. The petitioner now stands indicted in the 

High  Court  of  Negombo  under  case  No.  HC  80/23.  According  to  the 

indictment, he is the 2nd accused and is indicted along with another for 

being in joint possession of 809.6 grammes of heroin (Count No. 01).  

2.  The petitioner had been arrested on 19.07.2021 and the indictment has 

been  dispatched  on  25.07.2023.  The  same  had  been  served  on  the 

petitioner on 22.09.2023. As at now, the trial has commenced with PW 

01 and is scheduled for the further trial in May 2025. According to the 

initial  B  Report  marked  ‘Y-1’,  this  petitioner  along  with  another  had 

been arrested at a house in Ja-Ela. It is alleged that this petitioner along 

with the said other person were packeting heroin and a gross amount 

of 1 kilogram and 500 grammes of heroin was recovered along with Rs. 

868,900.00. 

Page 2 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0279-24 

3.  According to the petitioner, the main ground of exceptionality is the fact 

that he had been in remand for three years and seven months and the 

indictment  had  been  forwarded  one  year  and  nine  months  after  the 

receipt of the Government Analyst’s Report. It was also submitted that 

the  petitioner  does  not  have  any  previous  convictions  or  any  other 

pending  matters  except  a  money  laundering  matter  in  respect  of  the 

money recovered during this raid.  

4.  The  learned  State  Counsel  in  opposition  thereto  submitted  that  the 

petitioner  was  apprehended  with  a  commercial  quantity  and  the 

Attorney General has taken steps to institute action without any undue 

delay.  He  further  submitted  that  this  matter  required  the  conduct  of 

further  investigations  into  the  money  laundering  aspect  which  is  the 

reason for taking a little longer to indict in this matter.  

5.  The trial has now commenced and is in progress in the High Court of 

Negombo. He submitted that as the High Court of Negombo has heavy 

case load and a backlog of cases trials do take a little longer than some 

other Courts. Overall, the learned State Counsel submits that the mere 

effluxion of time in this matter is certainly not excessive or oppressive. 

In these circumstances, he argues that the petitioner has failed to make 

out exceptional circumstances. 

6.  It is a fact that the petitioner had been in remand for three years and 

seven months. Certainly, this is appreciably a long period. However, the 

provisions  of  Section  83(2)  as  amended  now  specifically  decrees  that 

person suspected or charged for narcotic offences involving 10 grammes 

or more be held in remand or detention pending the conclusion of such 

matter  or  trial.  Certainly,  this  provision  is  in  direct  conflict  with  the 

presumption  of  innocence.  The  rationale  for  implementing  such 

statutory provisions appears to be the increase and prevalence of drug 

related  offences  in  the  society.  This  is  a  provision  which  attempts  to 

have a deterrent effect on the prospective offenders by denying bail at 

the pre-trial and pre-conviction stage. This is a form of pre-conviction 

Page 3 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0279-24 

deterrence so to say, which is endorsed by statute. In the Indian case 

of Arun v. D. Pakyntein, 2009(7) SCALE 568, (2009)16 SCC 496 it was 

opined  that,  where  a  statute  confers  drastic  powers  and  provides  for 

stringent penal provisions including the matters relating to grant of bail, 

the conditions precedent therefore must be scrupulously complied with. 

That  being  so  unless  such  suspects  or  persons  indicted  are  able  to 

satisfy  this  Court  of  the  existence  of  some  circumstances  which  is 

exceptional it is not lawful for this Court to consider bail.  

7.  The only ground seriously urged is the delay. Justice Ranjith Silva in 

CA (PHC) APN 64/2009 (decided on 07.08.2009) as follows; 

“…If an accused cannot assign exceptional circumstances he will 

have  to  be  kept  on  remand  and  when  an  accused  had  been  on 

remand for 03 years because he had no exceptional circumstances 

will  that  by  itself  constitute  exceptional  circumstances.  If  that  is 

treated as an exceptional circumstance, in my view it would be an 

anomaly  because  the  fact  that  there  aren’t  any  exceptional 

circumstances finally mature into exceptional circumstances. The 

fact  that  he  had  no  exceptional  circumstances  becomes  a 

qualification  after  03  years.  If  that  was  the  intention  of  the 

legislature,  the  section  itself  would  have  stated  the  exceptional 

circumstances should not be insisted after 03 years and there is 

no such qualification, no such jurisdiction found in the particular 

provision dealing with bail…”  

8.  Thus,  a  person  languishing  in  remand  due  to  lack  of  exceptional 

circumstances  cannot  by  itself  snowball  become  a  windfall  of  an 

exceptional  circumstance.  This  stands  to  reason  if  any  other 

construction  is  given  and  the  mere  effluxion  of  time  in  remand  is 

considered  as  being  exceptional  it  will  lead  to  an  absurdity  of  the 

absence  of  exceptional  circumstances  becoming  exceptional.  Further, 

this will nullify the entire legislature and the object of such legislation.   

Page 4 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0279-24 

9.  As time and again observed, the delay in the legal process peculiar to 

such Court due to the backlog of the cases is a phenomenon common 

to  all  litigation  pending  in  such  Court.  Therefore,  such  delay  so 

resulting is nothing exceptional and is common to all cases including 

to cases under the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance. 

Such factors common to all cannot become or be lawfully interpreted 

and  construed  to  be  exceptional  or  unusual.  The  trial  in  the  present 

matter  is  now  pending  and  the  delay  alleged  in  concluding  the  trial 

cannot be considered as being exceptional. 

10. In  the  above  circumstances,  it  is  unfortunate  that  the  petitioner  had 

not  been  able  to  make  out  exceptional  circumstances  which  is 

necessary to consider bail under section 83(2). Accordingly, we are left 

with no option but to refuse and reject this application to bail. 

11. The application is accordingly rejected.   

 P. Kumararatnam, J. 

 I agree. 

   JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

   JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 5 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
