IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 

LANKA. 

In the matter of an Application for revision in 

terms of Article 138 of the Constitution of the 

Democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka. 

COURT OF APPEAL CASE NO:  

CA/PHC/APN  151/2024 

HC/RA/02/2024 :                                             Range Forest Officer  

                                                                         Range Forest Office 

   Thanamalwila 

                                 Complainant 

Vs.  

1.  Dapan Durage Dinushika 

No. 45/3,Shanthapura, Ata Hamara 

Suriyawewa 

2.  Gamage Sanjaya Kumara 

No. 536, Kiri Ibbanwewa 

Sevanagala 

Accused 

Peramadu  Gamlath  Rallage  Tharanga 

Chandra Kumara 

No.  4268, Mahagama Colony 

Sewanagala 

Claimant Owner 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Page 1 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peramadu  Gamlath  Rallage  Tharanga 

Chandra Kumara 

No.  4268, Mahagama Colony 

Sewanagala 

Claimant Owner-Petitioner  

                                                                              Range Forest Office 

Vs. 

1.    Range Forest Officer  

        Thanamalwila 

Complainant-Respondent 

2.  Hon. Attorney-General  

     Attorney General’s Department 

      Colombo 12. 

Respondent 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Peramadu  Gamlath  Rallage  Tharanga 

Chandra Kumara 

No.  4268, Mahagama Colony 

Sewanagala 

Claimant Owner-Petitioner-Petitioner  

Vs. 

3.    Range Forest Officer  

                                                                              Range Forest Office 

Page 2 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Thanamalwila 

Complainant-Respondent-Respondent 

4.  Hon. Attorney-General  

     Attorney General’s Department 

      Colombo 12. 

Respondent-Respondent 

Before :      B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

                    Amal Ranaraja, J.  

Counsel:      Nihara Randeniya for he Petitioner  

                     Osward Perera SC. for the   Respondents 

Argued On:  10.03.2025 

Order On:     28.03.2025 

B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

Order 

The  Claimant  owner  -  Petitioner-  Petitioner  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 

Petitioner) filed this application on 02.12.2024 seeking to set aside the orders of 

the  High  Court  of  Embilipitiya  dated  22.10.2024  and  the  Magistrate  Court  of 

Embilipitiya dated 19.01.2024. 

According  to  the  Petitioner,  the  two  Accused  were  charged  for  transporting  16 

trunks  of  Margosa,  Helamba,  and  Teak  worth  Rs.  101,084.80  using  the  Lorry 

bearing  No.  41-8223  without  a  license  being  obtained  from  the  competent 

Page 3 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                
 
   
 
authority and charged under Section 25 (1) read with Sections 40(1) A, 40(1) B and 

Section 52 of the Forest Ordinance as amended. The Petitioner states that upon 

pleading guilty on 11.02.2021, both Accused were fined a sum of Rs. 50,000/- each 

in default 2 months simple imprisonment.  

 Thereafter, an inquiry was held by the Magistrate where the Petitioner claimed 

the said vehicle to be released to him on a bond worth Rs. 1.5 Million.  

The  Learned  Magistrate  by  order  dated  19.01.2024  confiscated  the  said  lorry 

ordering the vehicle to be handed over to the custody of the Magistrate’s Court on 

the  basis  that  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  establish  that  he  has  taken  all  the 

precautions to prevent the use of the said vehicle for the commission of the offence. 

Being aggrieved by the said order, the Petitioner preferred a revision application 

to the High Court of Embilipitiya on the following grounds; 

a.  The order of the Learned Magistrate is unlawful, contrary to the law as well as the 

accepted legal norms 

b.  The Learned Magistrate has arrived at his decision by misconceiving the law and 

facts of the case. 

c.  The  Learned  Magistrate  had  made  the  order  without  considering  the  evidence 

placed before him to prove the precautionary measures that had been taken.  

The  Petitioner  avers  that  the  said  revision  application  was  dismissed  by  the 

Learned High Court Judge by order dated 22.10.2024 affirming the order of the 

Learned  Magistrate  on  the  basis  that  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  establish 

exceptional circumstances or miscarriage of justice that shocks the conscience of 

the Court. further, he has indicted in the order that, the Petitioner has failed to 

Page 4 of 14 

 
place  any  evidence  at  the  inquiry  that  he  has taken  precautionary  measures to 

prevent the use of the vehicle to commit the offence.  

Against  the  said  orders,  the  Petitioner  has  preferred  the  present  revision 

application in this Court. 

The question that we  are  faced with  is whether  this  Court can exercise  its  revisionary 

jurisdiction in respect of the order of the High Court of the Provinces in the exercise of its 

revisionary jurisdiction in terms of Article 154P (3) (b) of the Constitution. 

Originally, the revisionary jurisdiction was vested with the Court of Appeal under Article 

138 of the Constitution.  

Article 138 of the Constitution before the 13th Amendment reads as follows: 

“The  Court  of  Appeal  shall  have  and  exercise  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the 

Constitution or of any law, an appellate jurisdiction for the correction of all errors 

in fact or in law which shall be committed by any Court of First Instance, tribunal 

or other institution and sole and exclusive cognizance, by way of appeal, revision 

and restitutio in integrum of all causes, suits, actions, prosecutions, matters and 

things of which such Court of First Instance, tribunal or other institution may have 

taken cognizance.” 

After the 13th Amendment, according to Section 5 of the High Court of Provinces (Special 

Provinces) Act No. 19 of 1990 read with Article 154P (3) (b) of the Constitution enacted by 

the 13th Amendment, entitles any person to file a revision application in the High Court 

of the Province. 

According to the judgment of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution (1987) 2 SLR 310, 

the Supreme Court held that, on page 323; 

Page 5 of 14 

 
“The Bills do not effect any change in the structure of the Courts or judicial power 

of  the  People.  The Supreme  Court  and  the  Court  of  Appeal  continue to  exercise 

unimpaired the several jurisdictions vested in them by the Constitution. There is 

only one Supreme Court and one Court of Appeal for the whole Island, unlike in a 

Federal State. The 13th Amendment Bill only seeks to give jurisdictions in respect 

of  writs  of  Habeas  Corpus  in  respect  of  persons  illegally  detained  within  the 

Province and Writs of Certiorari, Mandamus and Prohibition against any person 

exercising within the Province any power under any law or statute made by the 

Provincial  Council  in  respect  of  any  matter  in  the  Provincial  Council  list  and 

appellate  jurisdiction  in  respect  of  convictions  ‘and  sentences  by  Magistrate’s 

Courts and Primary Courts within the Province to the High Court of the Province, 

without prejudice to the executing jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal. Vesting of 

this additional jurisdiction in the High Court of each Province only brings justice 

nearer home to the citizen and reduces delay and cost of litigation.”   

This judgment was cited and followed by His Lordship Eric Basnayake J in  Sharif and 

Others vs. Wickramasuriya and Others (2010) 1 SLR 255 at page 265; 

“I  am  of  the  view  that  the  jurisdiction  enjoyed  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  through 

Article 138 remains intact. Through Article 138 one has the liberty to invoke the 

jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal or to resort to a Provincial High Court in terms 

of Article 154P (3) (b). If one chooses to go to the High Court, an appeal would lie 

to the Supreme Court with leave first obtained from the High Court (Section 9 of 

the Act 19 of 1990). If one invokes the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal under 

Article 138 an appeal would lie from any final order or judgement of the Court of 

Appeal to the Supreme Court with leave of Court of Appeal first obtained (Article 

128(1)  of  the  Constitution).  It  is  thus  clear  that  both  courts  enjoy  concurrent 

jurisdiction on matters referred to in Article 154P (3) (b). The jurisdiction enjoyed 

Page 6 of 14 

 
by the Court of Appeal had not been disturbed by Articles of the Constitution or by 

the Acts of Parliament.” (Emphasis added) 

Article 154P (3)(b) and Article 154P (6) of the Constitution state as follows: 

“(3) Every High Court shall –  

(b)  notwithstanding  anything  in  Article  138  and  subject  to  any  law, 

exercise,  appellate  and  revisionary  jurisdiction  in  respect  of  convictions, 

sentences  and  orders  entered  or  imposed  by  Magistrates  Courts  and 

Primary Courts within the Province; 

(6) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and any law, any person aggrieved 

by  a  final  order,  judgment  or  sentence  of  any  such  Court,  in  the  exercise  of  its 

jurisdiction under paragraphs (3) (b) or (3) (c) or (4) may appeal there from to the 

Court of Appeal in accordance with Article 138.” 

It should be noted that in the said Article, revision was excluded by implication and only 

provides for an appeal to the Court of Appeal. 

Giving life to these provisions, Article 138 of the Constitution was amended by the 13th 

Amendment which reads as follows: 

“The  Court  of  Appeal  shall  have  and  exercise  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the 

Constitution or of any law, an appellate jurisdiction for the correction of all errors 

in fact or in law which shall be committed by the High Court, in the exercise of its 

appellate  or  original  jurisdiction  or  by  any  Court  of  First  Instance,  tribunal  or 

other institution and sole and exclusive cognizance, by way of appeal, revision and 

restitutio  in  integrum,  of  all  causes,  suits,  actions,  prosecutions,  matters  and 

things  of  which  such  High  Court,  Court  of  First  Instance  tribunal  or  other 

institution may have taken cognizance.” (Emphasis added) 

Page 7 of 14 

 
According to Section 5 of the High Court of Provinces (Special Provinces) Act No. 19 of 

1990, the powers given to the Court of Appeal under Article 138 of the Constitution were 

concurrently  given  to  the  Provincial  High  Court  established  under  Article  154P  of  the 

Constitution.  By  doing so,  both  Courts  are  equally  ranked when exercising  revisionary 

jurisdiction. The jurisdiction to hear revisions and appeals is vested in the Provincial High 

Court by Act No. 19 of 1990 as amended. 

Section 5 of the said Act provides that the High Court established under Article 154P of 

the  Constitution  for  a  province  shall  have  and  exercise  appellate  and  revisionary 

jurisdiction  in  respect  of  any  orders  delivered  and  made  by  the  Magistrates  Courts, 

Primary  Courts  or  Labour  Tribunals  within  the  Province  and  from  orders  made  under 

Section 5 and 9 of the Agrarian Services Act.  

Section 5 of the said Act is reproduced as follows for the purpose of convenience: 

“5. The Provisions of written law applicable to appeals to the Court of Appeal, from 

convictions, sentences or orders entered or imposed by a Magistrate's Court, and 

to  applications  made  to  the  Court  of  Appeal  for  revision  of  any  such conviction, 

sentence  or  order  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  appeals  to  the  High  Court 

established  by  Article  154P  of  the  Constitution  for  a Province, from  convictions, 

sentences  or  orders  entered  or  imposed  by  Magistrate's  Courts,  Primary  Courts 

and Labour Tribunals within that Province1 and from orders made under section 

5  or  section  9  of  the  Agrarian  Services  Act,  No.  58  of  1979,  in  respect  of  land 

situated  within  that  Province  and  to  applications  made  to  such High  Court,  for 

revision of any such conviction, sentence or order.” 

The central question that arises for consideration in this application is whether this Court 

can act in revision when the order has been pronounced by a Provincial High Court in 

terms of Section 5 of Act No. 19 of 1990.  

Page 8 of 14 

 
The  concept  of  concurrent  jurisdiction  exercised  by  the  Provincial  High  Court  and  the 

Court of Appeal is discussed in the following judicial pronouncements. 

In G.K.D. Stephan Gunaratne v. Maddumage Thushara Indika Sampath and Others, CA 

(PHC) APN  54/2013 (REV), Decided on 23.09.2013, A.W.A.Salam, J held that;  

“Appreciably,  Section  5A  of  Act  No  54  of  2006  quite  specifically  states  that  all 

relevant written laws applicable to an appeal, in the Court of Appeal are applicable 

to the High Court as well. This undoubtedly demonstrates beyond any iota of doubt 

that the scheme provided by Act No 54 of 2006 to facilitate an appeal being heard 

by the Provincial High Court is nothing but a clear transfer of jurisdiction and in 

effect could be said that as far as appeals are concerned both the High Court and 

the Court of Appeal rank equally and are placed on par with each other. Arising 

from this statement of law, it must be understood that if the Court of Appeal cannot 

act  in  revision  in  respect  of  a  judgment  it  pronounces  in  a  civil  appeal,  then  it 

cannot sit in revision over a judgment entered by the High Court in the exercise of 

its civil appellate jurisdiction as well, for both courts are to be equally ranked when 

they exercise civil appellate jurisdiction.”  

In  Muththusamy  Balaganeshn  v.  The  Officer    in  Charge  and  Another,  SC/Sp/LA  No. 

79/2015, Decided on 01.04.2016, Priyasath Dep, PC, J (as he was then) held that:  

“When  the  Provincial  High  Court  exercises  appellate  jurisdiction,  it  exercises 

appellate  jurisdiction  hitherto  exclusively  vested  in  the  Court  of  Appeal.  It 

exercises a parallel or concurrent jurisdiction with the Court of Appeal. The High 

Court when it exercises appellate jurisdiction it is not subordinate to the Court of 

Appeal. That is the basis for conferring jurisdiction on the Supreme Court under 

section 9 of the High Court of Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 19 of 1990 to 

Page 9 of 14 

 
hear  appeals  from  the  judgments  of  the  High Court  when  it  exercises  appellate 

jurisdiction.” 

The question before us is whether this Court has the jurisdiction to entertain the revision 

application  as  the  same  is  in  respect  of  an  order  made  in  exercise  of  revisionary 

jurisdiction  of the  High  Court,  in view  of the  fact that  the  Provincial High Courts  now 

exercise the same revisionary jurisdiction, once this Court exercised under Article 138 of 

the Constitution. If this application is allowed, it will set a bad precedent to allow a party 

who  fails  at  the  High  Court  and  file  an  application  in  this  Court.  In  other  words,  our 

Courts have expressed that “a party to an action cannot be given a chance to have a second 

bite of the same cherry.” 

This concept was considered by His Lordship Kulatunga J in Abeygunasekera v. Setunga 

and others,1997 (1) SLR 62, 

“At the hearing of the appeal, a preliminary objection was raised that the Court of 

Appeal has no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal as the same is in respect of an 

order made in the exercise of the revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court.  

……….. 

 In  the  alternative  he  submitted  that  the  decision 

in  Gunaratne  v 

Thambinayagam  is wrong when it held that Section 9 of Act No. 19 of 1990 does 

not permit direct appeals to the Supreme Court from orders made in the exercise 

of  revisionary  jurisdiction  of  the  High  Court  of  a  Province;  and  that  it  is  the 

Supreme  Court  which  has  the  jurisdiction  to  entertain  an  appeal  from  the 

impugned judgment. 

…. 

Page 10 of 14 

 
The power to review the orders of Magistrate's Courts and Primary Courts by way 

of appeal and revision is conferred on High Courts by Article 154P (3) (b). Section 

3  of  Act  No.  19  of  1993  extended  this  power  to  orders  of  Labour  Tribunals  and 

orders  made  under  Sections  5  and  9  of  the  Agrarian  Services  Act.  Had  these 

provisions  conferred  appellate  jurisdiction  on  the  High  Court  to  be  exercised  by 

way of appeal and revision, the questions of interpretation of the kind which have 

arisen from time to time may not have arisen. However, the use of the expression 

"appellate and revisionary jurisdiction" has given rise to such questions. 

………….. 

In  the  case  before  us,  Article  154P  (3)  (b)  conferred  "appellate  and  revisionary" 

jurisdiction on the High Court. Article 154P (6) provides that any person aggrieved 

by a decision of the High Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction inter alia, under 

paragraph (3) (b) may appeal therefrom to the Court of Appeal in accordance with 

Article 138. Thus Article 154(P) (6) itself has not limited the right of appeal given 

by it to orders made by the High Court by way of appeal. However, that  Article 

refers back to Article 138 which spells out the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal 

and the manner of its exercise.” 

The above-mentioned judgment was considered by His Lordship Ananda Coomarasamy, 

J in Abeywardene v. Ajith de Silva 1998 (1) SLR 134 at pages 139 - 140, along with Their 

Lordships Amarasinghe J, Wadugodapitiya J, Wijetunga J and Shirani Bandaranayake 

J agreeing and held that; 

“The  cumulative  effect  of  the  provisions  of  Articles  154P  (3)  (b),  154P  (6)  and 

section  9  of  Act  No.  19  of  1990  is  that,  while  there  is  a  right  of  appeal  to  the 

Supreme Court from the orders, etc., of the High Court established by Article 154P 

of  the  Constitution  in  the  exercise  of  the  appellate  jurisdiction  vested  in  it  by 

Page 11 of 14 

 
Article 154P (3) (b) or Section 3 of Act No. 19 of 1990 or any other law, there is no 

right  of  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court  from  the  orders  in  the  exercise  of  the 

revisionary jurisdiction. An appeal from an order of the High Court in the exercise 

of its revisionary jurisdiction should be made to the Court of Appeal. An appeal to 

the 

Supreme 

Court 

from 

the decision of the Court of Appeal would lie, with leave. 

…………… 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  if  a  litigant  invokes  the  revisionary  jurisdiction  of  the 

Court of Appeal, he has one chance for an appeal to the Supreme Court, whereas 

if  he  invokes  the  revisionary  jurisdiction  of  the  High  Court  he  will  have  two 

chances  of  appeal,  one  to  the  Court  of  Appeal  and  then  to  the  Supreme  Court, 

except when the revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court is invoked in relation 

to an order of a Labour Tribunal, in which case there is only one appeal and that 

too to the Supreme Court only. 

It is further seen that the legislature did intend to have the right of appeal to the 

Court  of  Appeal  from  a  revisionary  order  of  the  High  Court  except  when  the 

revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court is invoked in relation to an order of a 

Labour 

Tribunal. 

In response to the question placed before this court, I hold that a direct appeal does 

not lie to the Supreme Court from the order of the High Court in the exercise of 

the  revisionary  jurisdiction.  An  appeal  from  the  order  of  the  High  Court  in  the 

exercise  of  its  revisionary  jurisdiction  should  be  made  to  the  Court  of  Appeal. 

Where 

a 

party 

is 

dissatisfied with the order of the Court of Appeal, the party may, with leave of the 

Page 12 of 14 

 
Court of Appeal or when such leave is refused by the Court of Appeal, with leave 

of the Supreme Court, appeal to the Supreme Court.” (Emphasis added) 

In  Welisarage  Lakshman  Nishantha  Fernando  v.  The    Hon.  Attorney  General  and 

Another,  CA/MC/RE  Application  No.  04/2017,  His  Lordship  E.A.G.R.  Amrasekara,  J. 

along with A.H.M.D.Nawaz J held that: 

“However, for the following reasons this court cannot grant reliefs as prayed for in the 

petition;  

a)  The petitioner had filed revision applications in Gampaha High Court seeking 

revision of the said orders made by the learned magistrate and the said high 

court has dismissed the applications. (vide paragraph 8 of the petition). It must 

be noted that high courts now exercised the same revisionary jurisdiction once 

this  court  exercised  over  magistrate  courts.  As  he  has  filed  revision 

applications on the same orders previously in the High Court of Gampaha he 

has exhausted his remedy. His position is that his lawyers have not brought to 

the notice of High Court the facts averred in this petition. A party to an action 

cannot be given a chance to have a second bite of the same cherry. If this court 

allows this application it may create a bad precedent to allow a party who fails 

to present his case properly file another application.” 

Thus, we hold that, in the instant application, the Petitioner has already exhausted the 

remedy  available  by  the  statute.  Therefore,  the  Petitioner  cannot  invoke  the  same 

revisionary jurisdiction against the said order where the High Court exercises a parallel 

or concurrent jurisdiction with this Court. The Petitioner should have come by way of an 

appeal to this Court.  

Page 13 of 14 

 
 
 
For the above said reasons we dismiss the application without costs.  

Amal Ranaraja, J.  

I AGREE 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE  OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 14 of 14 

 
 
 
 
