IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

  In the matter of an application for Restitutio in
  Integrum  and  Revision  under  and  in  terms 
  of  Article  138  (1)  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  

Court of Appeal 
Case No: RII/0076/2024 

DC Galle 
Case No: SP/4095 

  Fathima Rushda Waseel  
   (Before marriage, Fathima Rushda Rauff) 
  No. 29/1A, Station Road, 
  Wellawatte 

        Applicant 

  Vs 

  Hemawarna Wijesinghe Senarath, 
  No. 9, Light House Street, 
  Fort, Galle 

And NOW BETWEEN 

  Hemawarna Wijesinghe Senarath, 
  No. 9, Light House Street, 
  Fort, Galle 

Respondent 

Respondent-Petitioner 

Vs. 

Fathima Rushda Waseel 
(Before marriage, Fathima Rushda Rauff) 
No. 29/1A, Station Road, 
Wellawatte 

Applicant-Respondent 

Before : 

R. Gurusinghe J 

& 

M.C.B.S. Morais J 

1 

 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Counsel : 

Maura Gunawansha, PC. With 
Isuru Siriwardana and Dineth Gunasekara 
Instructed by Yashodi Wijayasekara   
for the Respondent-Petitioner 

Neomal Senatilleke with Tanya Morjan 
Instructed by Anurangi Singh 
For the Respondent 

Supported on  :  04-03-2025  

Decided on      : 

 29-05-2025 

R. Gurusinghe 

ORDER 

The respondent-petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the petitioner) filed this 
Restitutio-in-Integrum  application,  seeking  to  set  aside  the  Order  of  the 
Learned District Judge dated 23 August 2024 in the case of SP/4095 in the 
Additional District Court of Galle, and to restore the petitioner to his original 
position before the absolute decree nisi entered in that case.  

The  applicant-respondent  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  respondent)  made 
an  application  to  the  Commissioner  of  National  Housing  in  terms  of  the 
provisions  in  section  18  A  of  the  Rent  Act  No.  7  of  1972,  to  demolish  the 
building assessment nos. 5, 7, 9, 9A, 9 1/1, 9 1/2, 9 1/5, and to redevelop 
the  land  for  more  efficient  utilisation.    The  petitioner  was  a  tenant  of 
assessment Nos. 9, 9A, 9 1/1, 9 1/2, and 9 1/5. 

After an inquiry, the Commissioner of National Housing (Southern Province), 
by  her  Order  dated  15-10-2023,  decided  that  buildings  with  assessment 
numbers  5,  7,  and  9  were  to  be  demolished  and  the  possession  was  to  be 
handed  over  to  the  owners.  Further,  the  owners  were  ordered  to  pay 
compensation 
  The  petitioner  was  also  awarded 
compensation of Rupees One Million One Hundred and Fourteen Thousand 
(Rs. 1,114,000/-). 

tenants. 

the 

to 

Thereafter,  the  respondent  instituted  an  action  before  the  District  Court  of 
Galle,  in  terms  of  Section  23  of  the  Rent  Act,  to  recover  possession  of 
assessment numbers 9, 9A, 9 1/1, 9 1/2, and 9 1/5.  The Learned District 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Judge issued a rule nisi against the petitioner.  Upon receiving the rule nisi, 
the petitioner filed objections and moved to dissolve the said rule nisi.  After 
an  inquiry,  the  District  Judge  of  Galle,  by  her  Order  dated  23-08-2024, 
decided that the possession to be handed over to  the respondent (landlord-
owner)  only  with  regard  to  assessment  no.  9.  In  respect  of  the  assessment 
numbers 9A, 9 1/1, 9 1/2, 9 1/5, the Learned District Judge did not grant a 
writ of possession.  Accordingly, the writ of possession was issued in respect 
of  the  building  assessment  no.9  only,  and  possession  of  assessment  no.  9 
was handed over to the respondent.  

Being  aggrieved  by  the  order  of  the  Learned  District  Judge  dated  23-08-
2024, the petitioner filed this application before this court, and the grounds 
urged by the petitioner are as follows: 

(a) The  said  order  is  totally  contrary  to  the  intention  in  enacting  the 

statutory provisions of the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972 as amended. 

(b) The  Learned  Trial  Judge  has  totally  failed  and  neglected  to  duly 
evaluate  and  to  consider  the  vital  facts  and  the  documentary  evidence 
in arriving at her findings. 

(c)  The  Learned  trial  Judge  has  entered  the  order  without  duly  analysing 
and considering the legal provisions, especially relating to the demolition 
of  the  buildings  under  the  Rent  Act  No.  7  of  1972  and  summary 
procedure under the Civil Procedure Code. 

(d) The  Learned  Trial  Judge  in  determining  the  order  impeached  and 
issuing  the  writ  of  execution,  has  not  at  all  considered  the  misleading, 
mala  fide  conduct,  suppression  of  facts  and  fraudulent  intention  of  the 
Respondent. 

(e)  The  Learned  Trial  Judge  has  totally  failed  and  ignored  to  consider  the 
vital legal matters raised by the Petitioner to the extent of denying audi 
alteram partem to the Petitioner. 

(f)  The  Learned  Trial  Judge  has  failed  to  properly  evaluate  the  material 
facts  and  evidence  placed  in  relation  to  the  violation  of  uberima  fides, 
the  duty  towards  court  in  applying  for  ex-parte  orders  and  she  further 
erred  in  law  allowing  the  execution  of  the  writ  when  her  order  itself 
reveals  the  existence  of  other  rented  out  premises  not  covered  by  the 
demolition order. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(g)  The  impeached  order  and  the  execution  thereof  by  the  Learned  Trial 
Judge is contrary  to  the  actual purpose  and intention of  the legislature 
specially in enacting Section 18 A of the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972. 

(h) The  execution  of  the  writ  only  in  respect  of  assessment  No.  09  of  the 
subject premises is futile and meaningless as per the impugned order of 
the Learned Trial Judge, as the entire building could not be demolished. 

The  petitioner  has  not  challenged  the  decision  of  the  Commissioner  of 
National Housing (Southern Province); therefore, that decision remains valid.  
The  petitioner,  without  challenging  the  decision  of  the  Commissioner  of 
National  Housing  (Southern  Province),  does  not  wish  to  implement  that 
decision.    The  objections  raised  against  the  rule  nisi  by  the  petitioner  were 
that  the  rule  nisi  was  not  in  conformity  with  the  decision  of  the  National 
Housing,  as  the  respondent  had  included  premises  numbers  for  which  the 
Commissioner  of  National  Housing  (Southern  Province)  had  made  no 
decision.    The  Learned  District  Judge  made  the  rule  nisi  absolute  after 
removing the assessment numbers for which no order had been made by the 
Commissioner of National Housing (Southern Province).  

The grounds that were put forward by the petitioner seeking to set aside the 
decision  of  the  Learned  District  Judge  of  Galle  dated  23  August  2024  are 
vague and incoherent.  For instance, ground A is as follows: 

(a) The  said  order  is  totally  contrary  to  the  intention  in  enacting  the 

statutory provisions of the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972 as amended. 

The  Learned  District  Judge,  by  her  order,  issued  a  writ  of  possession  in 
favour of the respondent, exactly as per the decision of the National Housing.  
The petitioner has no complaint about the decision of the National Housing 
or  that  the  Learned  District  Judge’s  order  was  not  in  accordance  with  the 
decision  of  the  National  Housing.    Therefore,  the  above  ground  is  not 
acceptable.  

The Ground (b) is this; 

 The  Learned  Trial  Judge  has  totally  failed  and  neglected  to  duly 
evaluate  and  to  consider  the  vital  facts  and  the  documentary  evidence 
in arriving at her findings. 

To substantiate ground (b), the petitioner does not state which vital facts or 
documentary  evidence  the  Learned  District  Judge  had  failed  to  consider.  
The Learned District Judge has to consider only the decision of the National 
Housing and if there was a good and valid cause shown by the petitioner not 
to deliver possession in terms of section 23 of the Rent Act.     

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  petitioner  did  not  challenge  the  National  Housing  Commissioner's 
decision either by a writ application or even in this application.  There is no 
complaint that the execution of the writ of possession was not in conformity 
with the decision of the National Housing Commissioner.   

Section 23 sub-section 9 of the Rent Act is as follows: 

(9)  Any  person  who  -is  dissatisfied  with  any  final  judgment,  or  any  order 
having the effect of a final judgment, pronounced or made by a District Court 
under this section may appeal to the Court of Appeal against such judgment or 
order;  and  the  provisions  of  any  other  written  law  relating  to  appeals  to  the 
Court of Appeal from the judgments or orders of District Courts shall apply in 
the  case  of  any  appeal  preferred  under  the  preceding  provisions  of  this 
subsection. 

The  petitioner  has  not  filed  any  appeal  against  the  impugned  order  of  the 
Learned  District  Judge.    When  the  law  provides  for  a  specific  remedy  to  a 
party, he should seek that remedy. 

For the reasons stated in this order, we refuse to issue a formal notice to the 
respondent.  The application of the petitioner is dismissed. 

Judge of the Court of Appeal. 

M.C.B.S. Morais J.  
I agree. 

Judge of the Court of Appeal. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
