IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

Court of Appeal Bail Application: 
CA/BAL/0515/2024 

Magistrate Court of Ratnapura: 
84716A 

In the matter of an Application for Bail  

In the matter of an Application for Bail  

under and in terms of Section 83(2) of  

the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous  

Drugs Ordinance No. 17 of 1929 as  

amended by Poisons, Opium and  

Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No.  

41 of 2022.  

Sellayya Ishwari , 

No 71/12/C, Reservoir Rd.,  

Ratnapura.  

 Petitioner.   

Vs. 

1.  Officer in Charge, 

Police Station, Ratnapura.  

2.  The Hon Attorney General, 

Attorney Generals’ Department                                                                                               

Colombo 12.                                                                         

             Respondents.      

 Siwardhanam Mehan Dilshan  

   Suspect         

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
 
                                                                    
 
                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                               
Before  

:  

: 

P Kumararathnam, J. 

Pradeep Hettiarachchi, J. 

Counsel 

:  

Gayal Katuwana for the Petitioner 

Tharaka Kodagoda, SC for the Respondents. 

             Inquiry on 

             Decided on 

:  

:  

29.04.2025 

30.05.2025 

             PRADEEP HETTIARACHCHI, J. 

ORDER 

1.  This  is  an  application  for  bail  filed  on  behalf  of  the  suspect  named  Siriwardhanam 

Mehan  Dilshan  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  suspect)  under  Section  83(2)  of  the 

Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance.  

2.  The  suspect  was  arrested  on  27.12.2023  by  officers  of  the  Ratnapura  Police  for 

trafficking  and  possession  of  Methamphetamine.  He  was  subsequently  produced 

before the Magistrate Court of Ratnapura and remanded 

3.  According  to  the  Police,  they  recovered  41.32g  of  Methamphetamine  from  the 

exclusive possession of the accused, which was later sent to the Government Analyst 

for examination. The Government Analyst’s Report, dated 02.04.2024, indicates that 

the net quantity of Methamphetamine is 22.32g. 

4.  The petitioner states that the suspect has been in remand since December 2023, and 

as  no  indictment  has  yet  been  served,  this  may  be  considered  an  exceptional 

circumstance warranting the release of the suspect on bail. 

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
                 
                                           
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.   The provisions of Section 83(2) of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No 41 of 2022, decrees that a person accused or suspected of 

being in possession of 10 grammes or more of the prescribed drugs, is required to be 

kept in remand, unless such person satisfies court as to the existence of exceptional 

circumstances. 

6.  Section 83 reads: 

83(1). Subject to the provisions of section 84, 85 and subsection (2) of this section, a 

person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 54A and 54B of this 

Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the Hogh Court except in Exceptional 

circumstances.  

   (2).  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Sections  84  and  85,  a  person  suspected  or 

accused of an offence under subsection (1) of Section 54A and Section 54B 

     a. of which the pure quantity of the dangerous drug, trafficked, imported, exported, 

or  possessed  is  ten  grammes  or  above  in  terms  of  the  report  issued  by  the 

Government Analyst under Section 77; and, 

      b. which is punishable with death or life imprisonment  

          shall  not  be  released  on  bail  except  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in  exceptional 

circumstances.  

7.   Nevertheless,  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  Statute.  Therefore, 

whether the grounds advanced on behalf of the suspect can be considered exceptional 

circumstances  must  be  determined  based  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  each 

individual case. 

8.  As stated in Ramu Thamodarampillai vs The Attorney General [2004] 3 Sri. L.R 180, 

“the  decision  must 

in  each  case  depends  on 

its  own  particular  facts  and 

circumstances.” 

9.  In  an  application  of  this  nature,  the  burden  rests  on  the  suspect  to  establish  the 

existence of exceptional circumstances. The petitioner urged the court to consider the 

following grounds as exceptional circumstances.  

Page 3 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
a.  The period of incarceration of the suspect; 

b.  After receiving the Government Analyst Report on 02.04. 2024, no indictment has 

been served on the suspect yet; 

c.  The discrepancy between the gross weight and pure weight of the substance; 

d.  One  seal  was  partly  broken  in  the  sealed  envelope  containing  the  alleged 

Methamphetamine when produced to the Magistrate; and, 

e.  No illegal substances were found in the possession of the suspect, as confirmed by 

the supporting affidavits annexed to the bail application 

10. It is to be noted that delay alone cannot be considered as an exceptional circumstance 

to grant bail for a suspect, unless it would amount to an oppressive and unexplainable 

delay.   

11. In  the  present  application,  the  suspect  has  been  in  remand  since  27.12.2023.  The 

prosecution  received  the  Government  Analyst’s  Report  dated  02.04.2024.  In  the 

objections filed by the Respondents, no plausible explanation was provided for their 

failure  to  file  an  indictment  against  the  suspect  despite  being  in  possession  of  the 

report.  

12. Furthermore, the Respondents have neither explained the progress of the case nor 

offered any valid excuse for the delay in preparing the indictment. The learned State 

Counsel was also unable to inform this Court of the current status of the IB extracts, 

provide any reason for the delay, or indicate a date—or even a probable time frame—

for when charges might be filed. 

13. As such, it is the opinion of this Court that the delay of one year and six months, when 

considered in conjunction with the failure to provide an explanation, may be regarded 

as exceptional. It is important to emphasize that when a person is deprived of their 

liberty and held in detention, those responsible for such deprivation must consciously 

and diligently take the necessary steps to pursue, finalize, and institute legal action. If 

no  reasonable  explanation  is  provided  for  any  delay,  such  delay  will  be  deemed 

excessive or oppressive. 

Page 4 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
14. As held in Attorney General v. Ediriweera (S.C. Appeal No. 100/2005), “Delay is always 

a  relative  term  and  the  question  to  be  considered  is  not  whether  there  was  mere 

explicable  delay,  as  when  there  is  a  backlog  of  cases,  but  whether  there  has  been 

excessive or oppressive delay and this always depends on the facts and circumstances 

of the case…”. 

15. It is common knowledge that the filing of certain cases is delayed due to their complex 

nature and the lack of adequate officers and resources. This is why delay, by itself, 

should not be considered an exceptional ground for granting bail in offences of this 

nature. As previously stated, delay must be assessed in conjunction with the specific 

facts and circumstances of each case. More importantly, the Court must not lose sight 

of the objective of the legislature when considering a bail application of this nature. 

The legislature, in its wisdom, has enacted these stringent laws with the aim of curbing 

the  commission  and  repetition  of  such  crimes,  which  have  become  a  menace  to 

society. 

16. At the same time, the stringent provisions of a statute should not be used as a tool to 

deny  a  person’s  liberty,  thereby  forcing  them  to  live  in  trepidation  without  any 

knowledge of the progress of the investigation or the possible outcome. 

17. Our  Courts  have  recognized  the  prejudice  caused  to  a  suspect  by  lengthy  and 

unjustified delays. To elaborate further, the right to a speedy trial is not only aimed at 

expediting  the  administration  of  justice  but  also  at  preventing  the  oppression  of  a 

citizen by keeping a criminal prosecution hanging over them for an indefinite period. 

18. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the relevant authorities to act with due diligence to 

avoid inordinate delays in prosecuting offenders. If the prosecution fails to act with 

due diligence and cannot explain the inordinate delay on their part, it would, in my 

opinion, constitute an exceptional circumstance as required by Section 83 of the Act. 

19. In the instant application, the Government Analyst Report was ready by 02.04.2024, 

but  for no  discernible  reasons  the  Respondents  have  failed  to  take further  steps  to 

Page 5 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indict the suspect who has been languishing in remand since 27.12.2023.  Thus, the 

delay of framing  charges  against  the  suspect  remains  unexplained  and  inexcusable, 

which would clearly amount to an oppressive delay on the part of the Respondents.   

20. In the instant application, the Government Analyst’s Report was ready by 02.04.2024, 

yet  for  no  discernible  reason,  the  Respondents  have  failed  to  take  further  steps  to 

indict the suspect, who has been languishing in remand since 27.12.2023. Therefore, 

the delay in framing charges against the suspect remains unexplained and inexcusable, 

which, in my opinion, amounts to an oppressive delay on the part of the Respondents.  

21. Based on the above analysis, I am inclined to grant bail to the suspect, subject to the 

following conditions. 

a.  cash bail in a sum of Rs. 100,000.00;  

b.   to  provide  two  sureties  who  should  execute  bonds  to  the  value  of  Rs. 

500,000.00 each; 

c.  the  sureties  should  provide  certificates  from  the  Grama  Sevaka  and  police 

reports from respective residential areas of such sureties;  

d.  the suspect shall surrender the passport or any travel document of the suspect, 

if he has any, to the Registrar of the Magistrate’s Court of Ratnapura; and, 

e.  The  suspect  is  ordered  to  report  to  the  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Ratnapura 

Police  Station  on  every  last  Sunday  of  the  month  before  12  noon.  This 

Application is accordingly allowed and the Registrar of this Court is directed to 

transmit  a  copy  of  this  order  to  the  Registrar  of  the  Magistrate’s  Court  of 

Ratnapura forthwith.    

                                                                      Judge of the Court of Appeal 

P.Kumararatnamm, J. 

I agree.                                                

                                                                       Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
       
 
 
