 IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

for 
In  the  matter  of  an  application 
mandates  in  the  nature  of  Writs  of 
Certiorari,  Prohibition  and  Mandamus 
under Article 140 of the Constitution of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  

CA WRIT APPLICATION  
NO. 186/2025 

Vs. 

I. S. Ama Sudakshinee     
Pothuhera 
Hunukotuwa waththa, 
Pannala, Aranayake. 

Petitioner 

1. University Grants Commission  
2. Prof. Kapila Senevirathna 

The Chaiman  

3. Prof. W.S. Wasantha Kumara 
4. Prof. O. G. Dayarathne Banda 
5. Dr. S. Raviraj 
6. Dr. R. A. Attalage 
7. Mrs. C.K.W. Unambuwa, P. C. 
8. Prof. (Mrs) Hemamali Gunatilaka 
9. Dr. Priyantha Premakumara 

All are of  
University Grant Commission  
No.20, Ward Place, 
Colombo 07. 

10. University of Kelaniya 
11. Prof. Nilanthi de Silva 
Vice Chancellor  

12. Professor M.M. Gunathilaka 

Dean, Faculty of Social Science 

13.Professor (Mrs) P.A.Paranagama 
Dean, Faculty of Graduate 
Studies 

14. Professor Dhammika     
      Weerasinghe 

Dean, Faculty of Computing and     
Technology  

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. Prof. S.R.D. Kalingamudali 

Dean, Faculty of Science 

16. Prof. W.M.C. Bandara  
      wanninayake 

Dean,  Faculty  of  Com.  & 
Management Studies 

17. Mr. U.S. Senarath 

Dean, Faculty of Humanities 

18. Prof. M. N. Chandratilake 

Dean, Faculty of Medicine 

19. Mr. G.M.R.D. Aponsu 
20. Mr. Udaya H. Kasthurirathne 
21. Dr. R. Chinthaka L De Silva 
22. Mr. D.D. Yashaswin             

Samarasinghe 

23. Ms. Chathini Uduwana 
24. Dr. (Mrs) M. Jaanaki 
      Gooneratne       
25. Mr. T.R. Waruna Sri Dhanapala 
26. Mr. A.H. Ranjith Udayasiri 
27. Mr. Rakhitha S.D.  

                                                           Abeygoonawardhana 

28. Mr. Kolitha Sanath Gunarathne 
29. Mr. Kandaudahewa Gemunu           

                                                           Gunasumana 

30. Prof. S.S. Weligamage 
31. Prof. W.M. Semasinghe 
32. Mr. K.K.K. Dharmathilaka 

The Registrar 

  All of 

       The Registrar 
       University of Kelaniya, Kelaniya. 

Respondents 

Before 

 : 

 : 

Hon. M.T. Mohammed Laffar, J.(CA) 

Hon. K. Priyantha Fernando, J. (CA) 

Counsel 
: 
                                                        Jayanath for the   Petitioner. 

K. G. Jinasena instructed by D. K. V.    

                                               Respondents.  

Prabhashanee Jayasekara, S.C. for the  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Written Submissions  

 : 

Petitioner filed on 04.04.2025.        

                                                         Respondent filed on 21.04.2025 

Decided on   

 : 

22.05.2025 

K. P. Fernando, J. (CA)  

The Petitioner has instituted this action seeking substantive reliefs of Writs of 

Certiorari quashing the decision of the University Grants Commission (UGC) 

to authorize the 10th Respondent (University) to conduct an inquiry against 

the  Petitioner  and  quashing  the  decision  of  the  University  to  conduct  a 

disciplinary inquiry against the Petitioner on the basis of the charge sheet P9; 

a Writ of Mandamus compelling the UGC to conduct an investigation based 

on the appeals marked as P6, P15 and P15A; a Writ of Prohibition against the 

11th Respondent preventing the conduct of the inquiry scheduled to be  held 

on 19th and 20th March 2025. 

On the date of support of the Application, the learned State Counsel appearing 

for  the  Respondents  raised  the  following  preliminary  objections  on  the 

maintainability of the instant application: 

a.  The Petitioner is guilty of laches. 

b.  The Petitioner has acquiesced and actively participated in the 

disciplinary process she now impugns. 

The inquiry was held by way of written submissions.  

THE PETITIONER’S POSITION: 

She was appointed to the position of Assistant Registrar, effective from March 

12, 2020 as per the letter of appointment issued under the signature of the 

Chairman  

of  the  UGC,  dated  3rd  March  2020  (P3).  As  per  P3,  she  is  entitled  to  be 

confirmed in the position effective from March 12, 2023. However, by the letter 

dated  

November 27, 2023 (P5), the Vice-Chancellor (VC) had informed her that her 

probationary period had been extended from 12th March to 11th March 2023.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
It was alleged that according to the contract of employment, the appointing 

authority is the UGC, and as such the decision to extend probationary period 

is illegal since no such authority has been delegated to VC. On December 26, 

2023,  

the Petitioner has submitted a letter (P6) challenging the decision to extend 

her  probationary  period.  By  paragraph  2(vii)  of  P6,  she  has  also  made  a 

complaint against the Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences. Upon receiving 

the  said  complaint,  the  VC  has  proceeded  to  appoint  H.  D.  Premaratne,  a 

retired employee of the Ministry of Health as the Preliminary Inquiry Officer 

(PIO) to investigate into the allegation made therein.  

It was stressed that, as per the caption of the Council Decision No. 522.19.07, 

the investigating officer was appointed to conduct a preliminary investigation 

against the complaint made by Mrs. I.S.A.P. Pothuhera, the Petitioner.  

The PIO had submitted his report dated 8th March 2024 recommending that 

a  disciplinary  inquiry  be  conducted  against  the  Petitioner.  Subsequently,  a 

charge sheet dated July 25, 2024 containing nine charges had been issued 

under the signature of the VC. 

Following the Petitioner’s complaint to HE the President, the Secretary to the 

President on 15th January 2025 had issued a letter (P17) to the Ministry of 

Education requesting intervention in the matter. The UGC has thereafter  

instructed the University to pause the disciplinary inquiry. However, the VC 

has again proceeded to conduct the said inquiry on March 19. 2025. By letter 

dated  

11th March 2025 (P22), the Petitioner has urged the VC to suspend the inquiry 

scheduled  for  19th  March  until  the  UGC  conducts  its  own  investigation  in 

terms of Section 15 (xii) of the Universities Act No. 16 of 1978 as amended by 

Universities (Amended) Act No. 7 of 1985. 

4 

 
 
 
PRELIMINARY OBJECTIONS: 

1.  IS THE PETITIONER GUILTY OF LACHES?  

The  first  decision  to  commence  disciplinary  proceedings  was  taken  on 

09.01.2024.  Pursuant  to  this  decision,  a  preliminary  investigation  was 

conducted and report has been submitted on 08.03.2024. (vide paragraph 09 

of  the  Petition)  The  Petitioner  has  admitted  that  a  statement  was  obtained 

from her as a part of the preliminary investigation. 

By her own admission, the Petitioner would have known by March 2024 that, 

disciplinary  proceedings  were  being  taken  against  her.  Yet,  only  around 

January 2025-i.e. nearly 10 months after the conclusion of the preliminary 

inquiry against her, that the Petitioner has sought writ against the decision 

of the University. 

It is only around March 2025-i.e., nearly 12 months after the conclusion of 

the preliminary inquiry against her, that she has sought relief from the Court. 

It was contended that the correct stage (if at all) to have sought recourse was 

the time when the University decided to commence disciplinary proceedings 

or at best, upon the conclusion of the preliminary investigations. 

In response, the Petitioner has submitted that she has justified the delay by 

seeking all other remedies before making the instant application.  

By  the  letter  dated  26th  December  2023,  regarding  the  decision  taken  to 

extend  the  probationary  period,  the  Petitioner  has  urged  the  Council  to 

withdraw the decision taken to extend the period of probation and to conduct 

an impartial inquiry in respect of any allegation against her. 

In fact, on 22nd August 2024, the Petitioner had answered the Charge Sheet 

by P10 and requested the VC to grant an opportunity to have a Defence 

Officer if the Council decided to proceed with a disciplinary inquiry.  

An application for a Writ of Certiorari should be filed within a reasonable time 

from the date of the Order which the applicant seeks to have quashed. What 

is reasonable time and what will constitute undue delay will depend upon the 

5 

 
facts of each particular case. However, the time lag that can be explained does 

not spell laches or delay. If the delay can be reasonably explained, the Court 

will not decline to interfere. The delay which a Court can excuse is one which 

is caused by the applicant pursuing a legal remedy and not a remedy which 

is  extra-legal.  One  satisfactory  way  to  explain  the  delay  is  for  the 

petitioner to show that he has been seeking relief elsewhere in a manner 

provided by law-page 379 of Biso Menika vs. Cyril de Alwis and Others-

S.C. No. 59/81-SLR 1982 Volume I. 

In the instant case, the Petitioner has been seeking to conduct an impartial 

inquiry from December 2023 by the Council of the University and has been 

requesting the UGC a transfer to any other Higher Education Institution to 

continue her employment. These acts can be considered as seeking remedy 

elsewhere in a manner provided by law. Thus, she has explained the delay.  

However, as explained below, by her acts spanning for nearly one year she 

has acquiesced in the disciplinary proceedings. 

2.  HAS THE PETITIONER ACQUIESCED IN THE DISCIPLINARY 

PROCEEDINGS COMMENCED AGAINST HER? 

It was contended by the respondents that the Petitioner has participated in 

the  disciplinary  proceedings  without  raising  any  complaints  as  regards  the 

legality thereof.  

In this regard, the Petitioner has admitted to having provided a statement in 

the  preliminary  inquiry.  (vide  paragraph  9  of  the  Petition).  In  terms  of  the 

summary of her statement as recorded in the report P8, the Petitioner has not 

raised any concerns relating to the legality of the proceedings.  

The Petitioner has not raised any concerns regarding the legality of the charge 

sheet or the disciplinary proceedings in the answer P10. In fact, the Petitioner 

has  expressly  declared  that  she  will  participate  in  the  formal  inquiry. 

(paragraph 2 of P10). 

6 

 
 
Further,  in  paragraph  3  of  P10,  the  Petitioner  has  requested  that  she  be 

permitted  to  appoint  an  officer  to  appear  on  her  behalf  at  the  formal 

disciplinary inquiry.  

By paragraph 18(ii) of P15B, the Petitioner has expressly admitted that, “….in 

terms of Section 75 of the Act, the Disciplinary Authority of the Petitioner is the 

Council of the 10th Respondent University”.  

It  is  seen  that  the  Petitioner  herself  has  requested  the  Council  of  the 

University to conduct disciplinary proceedings against her in respect of any 

allegations levelled against her as follows: (vide P6)- “4.  In view of the facts 

and  the  legal  provisions  stated  above,  I  respectfully  urge  Your  Honourable 

Members of the Council to withdraw the decision taken to extend the period of 

my  probation  and  to  conduct  an  impartial  inquiry  in  respect  of  any 

allegation to be made against me”. (emphasis added) 

It is respondents’ position that the Council of the University is the disciplinary 

authority of the Petitioner. Attention was drawn to the provisions of Section 

45(2)(xii) of the Universities Act which provides as follows:  

provisions of section 45(2) (xii) of the Universities Act which provides as 

follows: 

1)  “Subject to the provisions of this Act the Council shall exercise the 

powers and perform and discharge the duties and functions conferred 

or imposed on, or assigned to, the University. 

2)   Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred upon it by 

subsection (1), the Council shall exercise, perform and discharge the 

following powers, duties and functions: 

… 

(xii) to appoint persons to, and to suspend, dismiss or otherwise punish 

persons in the employment of the University.” (Emphasis added) 

7 

 
 
The fact that the Council of the University exercises disciplinary control over 

the Petitioner is confirmed by the provisions of Section 75(2) of the 

Universities Act read with Section 44 of the Act. 

Section 44: “The Council of a University (hereinafter referred to as “the council”, 

shall be the executive body and governing authority of the University and 

shall consist of the following persons….” (emphasis added) 

Section 75: 

“(1)  The  retirement  age  of  a  public  officer  as  may  be  determined  by  the 

Government, from time to time, shall apply with effect from the same date as  

applicable to a public officer in respect of the retirement age of the holder of any 

post, other than that of a teacher. 

(2)(a)  the  Commission  or  the  governing  authority  of  any  Higher 

Educational Institution to which the holder of such post is attached or 

in the case where such person is attached to a Higher Educational Institute, the 

governing authority of the Higher Educational Institution to which such institute 

is  affiliated  may  base  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Institute  suspend  the 

holder  of  such  post  pending  an  inquiry  by  the  Commission  or  such 

governing  authority  or  the  Institute,  as  the  case  may  be,  for  misconduct, 

inefficiency or dereliction of duty; or 

(2)(b)  where  such  holder  of  post  is  found  guilty  after  such  inquiry,  the 

Commission,  the  governing  authority  of  the  Higher  Educational  Institution  to 

which such  

person is attached or in  the case  where  such person is attached  to  a Higher 

Educational  Institute,  the  governing  authority  of  the  Higher  Educational 

Institution  to  which  such  Institute  is  affiliated,  as  the  case  may  be,  may  on 

resolution adopted by the Commission or the governing authority of the relevant 

Higher Educational Institution, dismiss or compulsorily retire the holder of 

such post.” [Emphasis added] 

8 

 
 
It is decided in the case of K.G. Eranda Wijesiri vs. University of Kelaniya 

and 05 Others-CA (WRIT) 756/2007 decided on 15.10.2010, that the Council 

of the University is the disciplinary authority of those in the employment of 

the  University.  In  the  said  case,  the  petitioner  was  a  Chief  Security  Officer 

attached  to  the  University  of  Kelaniya.  He  was  appointed  by  the  UGC  and 

assigned to the University. The counsel for the petitioner took up the position 

that  the  University  of  Kelaniya  is  not  the  disciplinary  authority  of  the 

petitioner. Pursuant to an analysis of Section 45(2)(xii) and Section 75(2) of 

the Universities Act, the Court of Appeal held that the University of Kelaniya 

was, in fact, the disciplinary authority of the petitioner.  

In the above circumstances, the Petitioner has acquiesced in the disciplinary 

proceedings commenced against her by the University and it disentitled the 

Petitioner from being granted the reliefs prayed for in this Application. Thus, 

I uphold the 2nd Preliminary Objection. 

In  the  circumstances,  I  proceed  to  dismiss  the  instant  Application  of  the 

Petitioner. 

                                                                 Judge of the Court of Appeal 

M.T. Mohammed Laffar, J. (Act.P/CA) 

I agree. 

                                                                      Judge of the Court of Appeal 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
