CA Bail 351-2023 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for 

Bail  as  under  and  in  terms  of 

Section 83(2) of the Poisons, Opium 

and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance of 

17  of  1929  as  amended  by  section 

04 of the Act No.41 of 2022. 

Court of Appeal Bail Application   The Officer-in-Charge 

CA Bail/0351/23                       Division Crime Investigation  

Bureau, 

. 

 Mount Lavenia.                               

Complainant 

MC Mount Lavenia         

Vs. 

No. B 13490/2023              

        W.H.K. Mangala Silva 

(In remand custody) 

Suspect 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

W.P.Dilki Devindi Fernando 

No. 10/2, Mahindarama Road, 

Ratmalana. 

Vs 

Petitioner 

1.  The Attorney General  

Attorney  General’s  Department 

Colombo-12. 

2.  The Officer-in-Charge 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 351-2023 

Division Crime Investigation  

Bureau, 

Mount Lavenia. 

                    Respondents 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.  

COUNSEL                    : 

Tenny Fernando with Himashi Silva for 

the Petitioner.  

Jehan  Gunasekara,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

24/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

29/04/2025. 

***************************** 

                                         ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the wife  of the  Suspect (Hereinafter referred to as the 

Suspect) named in the Magistrate Court of Mount Lavenia case bearing 

No. B 13490/2023.   

According to the B report filed by the police, upon receiving information 

while on patrol, the officers attached to Division Crime Prevention Unit 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
                                           
CA Bail 351-2023 

had searched the house of the Suspect situated at Mahindarama Road, 

Ratmalana on 23.03.2023. When the police team entered the house had 

seen  a  bunch  of  keys  in  the  hand  of  the  Suspect.  Using  a  key  of  the 

bunch,  the  police  had  opened  a  n  almirah  in  the  house.  Inside  the 

almirah the officers had found a shopping bag in which 6 cellophane bags 

contained Methamphetamine. Immediately the Suspect was arrested and 

the contraband was seized. Thereafter, the contraband was weighed at a 

Jewellery Shop. The substances in the parcels weighed about 600 grams.           

The Suspect was produced in the Court under Section 54A (b) and (d) of 

the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by Act 

No. 13 of 1984. Further, a detention order was obtained from the Mount 

Lavenia  Magistrate  Court  to  detain  the  Suspect  to  conduct  further 

investigation. 

According to the Petitioner, the Suspect  has been in remand little over 

two years to date.   

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of her Bail Application.  

1.  The  facts  reported  to  Court  by  the  police  are  proven  to  be 

contradictory and rather false when viewing the CCTV footage and 

there  the  conduct  of  the  police  implicating  the  Suspect  is 

outrageous and capricious constituting an exceptional ground to 

consider bail for the Suspect. 

2.  The  Suspect’s  Attorney-at-law  at  the  very  first  instance  has 

indicated  and  informed  the  learned  Magistrate  that  Suspect  was 

falsely implicated by the police officers and contraband was foisted 

in  his  possession  has  caused  an  exceptional  ground  to  consider 

bail for the Suspect.  

3.  The version of the police is unusual from the face of the record and 

thereby it is evident that the case against the Suspect was a false 

one. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 351-2023 

4.  The  Suspect  has  two  children  and  the  sole  breadwinner  of  the 

family.   

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what is 

exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”. 

In  CA(PHC)APN  107/2018  decided  on  19.03.2019  the  court  held  that 

remanding for a period of one year and five months without being served 

with the in indictment was considered inter alia in releasing the suspect 

on bail. According to the Petitioner, at present her family is going through 

untold hardship without proper income and care.    

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 351-2023 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,   

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

The Counsel for the Petitioner urged this Court to consider that detaining 

a  Suspect  without  any  legal  action  for  an  extended  period  of  time 

amounts to a violation of his fundamental rights which can be considered 

as an exceptional ground. 

In Nasher v. Director of Public Prosecution [2020] VSCA 144 the court 

held that: 

“a  combination  of  delay,  onerous  custodial  conditions,  and  the 

relative weakness of the prosecution case may, when considered with 

all  relevant  circumstances,  compel  the  conclusion  that  exceptional 

circumstances have been established”. [Emphasis added] 

The Petitioner vehemently denies the allegation and the facts reported by 

the  police  and  strongly  urges  the  Court  to  consider  the  CCTV  footage 

submitted by the way of an affidavit. 

In a bail inquiry when the Petitioner brings to the notice of the Court the 

circumstances which could be capable of shaking the prosecution case, 

the  Court  has  the  discretion  to  tentatively  look  to  the  facts  and 

circumstances  of  the  case  to  ascertain  whether  a  reasonable  ground 

exists or not either to grant or refuse bail. The Court should not probe 

into the merits of the case, but restrict itself to the material placed before 

it. But, even for the purpose of bail any benefit of doubt arising in the 

case must accrue to the Suspect.   

One  of 

the  grounds  urged  by 

the 

learned  Counsel 

is 

that 

Methamphetamine  said  to  have  recovered  from  the  Suspect  was  an 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 351-2023 

introduction.  Further,  the  Suspect  never  possessed  any 

illegal 

substances and the police never visited her house to arrest the Suspect.   

In this case the probability of the happening of the incident as described 

by the police need to be assessed thoroughly before the court could come 

to  a  final  decision.  This  could  only  be  done  at  a  trial.  Until  such  time 

keeping  the  Suspect  in  remand,  I  consider  is  not  proper  under  the 

circumstances of this matter.    

Hence, I consider the delay little more than two years in remand falls into 

the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

Offences  under  Section  54A(b)  and  54A(d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is no 

doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offence alone cannot form 

a ground to refuse bail. In considering these matters, the court must bear 

in mind the presumption of innocence. 

Further, bail should never be withheld as punishment. Granting of bail 

is  primarily  at  the  discretion  of  the  Courts.  The  discretion  should  be 

exercised  with  due care  and  caution  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 

circumstances of each case.    

Considering  all  these  factors  into  account,  especially  the  period  in 

remand, the circumstances of arrest and the other circumstances of the 

case,  I  consider  this  an  appropriate  case  to  grant  bail  to  the  Suspect. 

Hence,  I  order  the  Suspect  be  granted  bail  with  following  strict 

conditions. 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.100,000/=.  

2.  To provide 02 sureties. They must sign a bond of two million each. 

The Petitioner should be the one of the sureties. 

3.  The Suspect and the sureties must reside in the address given until 

conclusion of his case. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 351-2023 

4.  Not to approach any prosecution witnesses directly or indirectly or 

to interfere with. 

5.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel document. The Controller of the Immigration and Emigration 

is informed of the travel ban on the Suspect. 

6.  To report to the Mount Lavenia Police Station on the second last 

Sunday of every month between 9am to 1pm. 

7.  Any breach of these conditions is likely to result in the cancellation 

of his bail. 

The  Bail  is  allowed  and  the  Learned  Magistrate  of  Mount  Lavenia  is 

hereby  directed  to  enlarge  the  Suspect  on  bail  on  the  above  bail 

conditions. 

The Registrar of this Court is directed to send this order to the Magistrate 

of  Mount  Lavenia  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Station  Mount 

Lavenia.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
