1 

 
 
 
 MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J.  

The respondent-appellant-petitioner  (hereinafter  referred to as 
the "Petitioner”) is seeking leave to appeal from the order of the 
Board  of  Quazi  dated  on  06/01/2024.  We  heard  the  learned 
Counsel  for  the  petitioner  in  support  of  this  application.  We 
heard  the  learned  President's  Counsel  for  the  applicant-
respondent-respondent 
the 
(hereinafter 
"Respondent") as well. 

referred 

to  as 

 The  petitioner  married  the  respondent  in  2014,  under  the 
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act no 13 of 1951. There is a son 
born  out of  this  marriage  on  15/03/2016.  In  January  2019, 
the respondent made an application for a Fasah divorce before 
the Quazi Court of Colombo South, seeking a divorce from the 
petitioner.  The  petitioner  made  an  application  in  the  District 
Court of Colombo for the custody of the said child and the said 
case is pending  before the District Court. 

 The petitioner states that inadvertently  it was recorded in the 
District  Court  that  the  parties  have  divorced.  Subsequently, 
the  said  erroneous  proceedings  were  rectified.  The  learned 
counsel  for  the  petitioner  states  that  the  learned  Quazi  was 
influenced  by  the  aforesaid  inadvertent  recording  before  the 
District  Court.  It  is  born  out  from  the  proceedings  of  the 
learned  Quazi  of  the  Colombo  South  that  he  was  not 
influenced by the said inadvertent recording before the District 
Court. The learned Quazi has not granted Fasah divorce upon 
the  inadvertent  proceedings  before  the  District  Court  stating 
that parties have divorced. 

 It  is  evident  that  the  learned  Quazi  had  empanelled  three 
accessors  throughout the proceeding  to assist  him in hearing 
the application  and  the end  of  the proceedings  the  accessors 
have placed their signatures. Moreover, through the accessors 
the learned Quazi had taken necessary steps for reconciliation. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 At  one  point,  on  the  application  of  the  parties,the  learned 
Quazi decided to inform the judicial service commission for the 
purpose  of  transferring  the  case  to  an  another  Quazi  Court. 
However,  later he had  decided  to hear  the case.  It appears  to 
this court that even though  the petitioner  was given notice to 
be presented before the Quazi, the petitioner had not complied 
with the said notice. 

 Having  scrutinized  the  proceedings  of  the  Quazi  Court  of 
Colombo  South,  it  is  apparent  that  the  learned  Quazi  had 
obtained  adequate  evidence to grant  Fasah divorce.  Specially, 
the attention  of the learned  Quazi was  drawn  to the fact  that 
the  respondent  (wife)  informed  Quazi  that  she  was  not  in  a 
position to live with the petitioner due to his cruelty. 

 In the case of Deed V Rauf (1977 2S. L.R P253) it was observed 
by Ismail J that 

I.  "Habitual  physical 

ill-treatment  is  not  necessary  to 
establish  a  'fasah'  divorce.  The  method,  degree  and 
standard  of ill-treatment  required  to constitute  a 'fasah' 
divorce amongst Muslims belonging to the Shafie sect are 
much less than that is required under  the common  law. 
No physical ill-treatment is necessary for a fasah divorce 
according  to  the  Shafir  Law.  If  a  husband  makes  his 
wife's  life  miserable  by  cruelty  of  conduct  even  when  it 
does  not  amount  to physical  ill-treatment,  the  wife  can 
claim a 'fasah'  divorce. 

II.  Under the Muslim Law, a husband  who habitually  makes 
false  allegations  of  adultery  against  his  wife  is  guilty  of 
cruelty  and  that  such  cruelty  is  a  valid  ground  for 
divorce. 

In  these  circumstances,  we  are  of  the  view  that  there  is  no 
basis  to  interfere  with  the  orders  of  the  learned  Quazi  of 
Colombo South and the Board of Quazi. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the  foregoing  reasons,  we see that  there  is no  legal  basis 
to grant leave to appeal against the impugn order of the Board 
of  Quazi.  Thus,  the  leave  is  refused,  and  the  application  is 
dismissed without costs. 

      Leave  refused, Application  Dismissed.  No costs. 

P. KUMARARATNAM,  J.  

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
