IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF SRI LANKA 

In  a  matter  of  an  application  for  Writs  of 
Certiorari  and  Mandamus,  under  and  in  terms 
of  Article  140  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 
CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Samarakoon Mudiyanselage 
Chaminda Prasad Samarakoon, 
20A/1, Pilawala,  
Gunnepana,  
Kandy.   

Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, 

No. 609, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha, 
Colombo 09. 

2.  D.J.A.S.De S Rajakaruna, 

Chairman, 
Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, 
No. 609, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha, 
Colombo 09. 

3.  Dr. Mayura Neththikumarage, 

Managing Director, 
Ceylon Petroleum Corporation 
No. 609, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha, 
Colombo 09. 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 1 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Honorable Attorney General, 

Attorney General's Department, 
Colombo 12. 

Respondents 

Before:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).  

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Counsel:  Mohamed  Adamaly,  P.C.  with  Ms.  Kathya  Seneviratne  instructed 

by Ms. Shanya Wickramarathne for the Petitioner.  

Rajika  Aluwihare,  S.C.  instructed  by  Kumudu  Ariyarathna  for  the 
1st to 4th Respondents.   

Supported on 

:            19.02.2025 

Written Submissions  
of the Petitioner  
tendered on  

Written Submissions  
of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd  
Respondents 
tendered on  

: 

    21.03.2025 

: 

    25.03.2025 

Decided on   

:            16.05.2025 

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

This is an application by the Petitioner under Article 140 of the Constitution for 

a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  Writ  of  Certiorari  to  quash  the  decision  of  the  1st 

and/or 2nd and/or 3rd Respondents to interdict the Petitioner with half pay, as 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 2 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contained  in  the  letter  marked  P19,  and/or  to  quash  the  letter  itself  in  its 

entirety; and for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of  Mandamus  directing the 

1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd  Respondents  to  reinstate  the  Petitioner  in 

employment  in  the marketing  function  in  the  same  grade  and  post,  and/or  to 

reinstate  the  payment  to  the  Petitioner  of  his  full  monthly  salary  and 

emoluments until conclusion of the disciplinary process.  

The Petitioner had in his initial motion dated, 29.01.2025 filed in this Court at 

the time of the institution of the instant application, urged that this matter be 

listed  for  support  of  the  application  for  notice,  as  well  as  the  application  for 

interim  relief  sought  in  his  petition  dated  29.01.2025  on  any  of  the  3  days 

stated  therein,  namely;  05.02.2025,  06.02.2025,  10.02.2025  and  stated  that, 

direct  notices  would  be  served  by  the  Petitioner  on  the  1st  to  4th  Respondents 

by registered post and proofs thereof would be furnished to Court by way of a 

motion.  

However, the Petitioner in his subsequent motion dated 31.01.2025 which was 

received by Court Registry on the very same day on 31.01.2025 at 9:25 AM as 

evident  from  the  Court  frank  affixed  thereon,  had  urged  that,  this  matter  be 

listed  for  support  of  the  application  for  notice,  as  well  as  the  application  for 

interim relief sought in the petition dated 29.01.2025 on the very same day on 

31.01.2025.  

When this matter came on before us on 31.01.2025 in pursuant to the motion 

so filed in this Court by the Petitioner, none of the Respondents were present in 

Court  nor  represented,  and  learned  President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  had 

informed  Court  that,  he  had  given  notices  of  this  application  to  the 

Respondents informing them that, this matter will be coming up for support of 

the application for notice, as well as the application for interim relief sought in 

the petition dated 29.01.2025 and brought to the notice of the Court that any 

of the Respondents were nevertheless, not present in Court nor represented in 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 3 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
Court, and therefore, moved to support both the applications for notice as well 

as for interim relief sought against the 1st to 3rd Respondents. 

In  the  circumstances,  this  Court  had  having  heard  the  learned  President’s  

Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  on  the  application  for  notice  as  well  as  for  interim 

order,  made  order  issuing  notices  on  the  1st  to  4th  Respondents  together  with 

an interim relief as prayed for in prayer ‘b’ of the said petition of the Petitioner 

effective for 14 days and directing them to be served on the Respondents in the 

manner prescribed therein, returnable for 13.02.2025 on the belief that direct 

notices  had  duly,  been  dispatched  to  the  1st  to  4th  Respondents  by  the 

Petitioner informing them that this matter will be coming up before this Court 

on  31.01.2025  for  the  said  purpose  as  submitted  to  Court  by  the  learned 

President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  as  evident  from  the  minutes  of  Court 

dated 31.01.2025.  

When  this  matter  came  on  before  us  on  13.02.2025,  learned  State  Counsel 

appearing  for  the  1st  to  4th  Respondents  had  brought  to  our  notice  that,  no 

notice whatsoever had been served by the Petitioner on any of the Respondents 

informing them that, this matter will be coming up on 31.01.2025 for support 

of the application for notice, as well as the application for interim relief sought 

in  his  petition  dated  29.01.2025  as  informed  to  Court  by  the  learned 

President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  on  31.01.2025,  and  in  the  result,  the 

learned State Counsel had vehemently, moved Court to have the interim order 

so  issued  ex-parte  without  notice  to  the  Respondents  by  Court  against  the 

Respondents, vacated for want of due notices on the Respondents.  

In the result, the application for interim relief had been fixed by this Court for 

support  afresh,  thereby,  directing  written  submissions  to  be  filed  in  Court 

within  the  stipulated  period  of  time  as  urged  by  Counsel,  setting  out  their 

respective positions with regard to the application for interim relief and written 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 4 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
submissions  were  thus  filed  by  the  respective  parties  and  order  thereon  was 

reserved for today.   

The  immediate  matter  before  this  Court  for  its  determination  being  the 

application of the Petitioner for an interim relief of kind as prayed for in prayer 

‘b’ of his petition dated 29.01.2025 and conversely, the application of the 1st to 

4th Respondents for the refusal of the grant of the same. 

The  instant  application  for  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  Writs  of  Certiorari  and 

Mandamus  has  to  be  fully,  argued  and  decided  on  its  merits  at  the  final 

hearing of the same, but at this stage, this Court is only concerned with and/or 

considering  the  issue  of  an  interim  order  as  prayed  for  in  prayer  (b)  of  the 

petition,  as  observed  by  this  Court  in  the  decision  in  CA  Application  No. 

336/2012- decided on 22.02.2013. 

As  observed  by  this  Court  in  the  decision  in  Duwearatchi  and  Another  Vs. 

Vincent  Perera  and  Another  1984  (2)  SLR  94  at  Pages  100  and  101,  it  is 

necessary for this Court to form a tentative view, subject to a final decision at 

the hearing of this application for a mandate in the nature of Writs of Certiorari 

and  Mandamus.  The  position  in  law  is  that,  the  Court  can  express  for  the 

purpose  of  a  decision,  a  prima  facie  and  a  tentative  opinion  subject  to  a  final 

decision  and  a  prima  facie  and  a  tentative  opinion  should  be  formed  on  the 

material  available  on  record,  and  that,  this  prima  facie  view  is  only  expressed 

for the decision of the matter before us and is subject to a  final decision; and 

that  the  Court  does  not  determine  the  controversial  issues  in  the  case  at  this 

stage of considering an application for interim relief.  

The main factor to be considered by a Court for the issue of or non-issue of a 

stay  order  in  an  application  of  this  kind  had  been  set  out  by  the  Supreme 

Court  in  the  decision  in  Billimoria  Vs  Minister  of  Lands  and  Land 

Development  and  Mahaweli  Development  and  Two  Others  (1978-79-80)  1 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 5 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
SLR  10  at  page  13  that,  “In  considering  this  question,  we  must  bear  in  mind 

that  a  stay  order  is  an  incidental  order  made  in  the  exercise  of  inherent  or 

implied  powers  of  Court.  Without  such  power  the  Court’s  final  order  in  most 

cases  would  if  the  Petitioner  is  successful,  be  rendered  nugatory  and  the 

aggrieved party will be left holding an empty decree worthless of all purposes.”. 

Court  in  the  decision  in  Billimoria  Vs  Minister  of  Lands  and  Land 

Development  and  Mahaweli  Development  and  Two  Others  (Supra)    further 

observed  at  page  15  that,  “The  interests  of  justice  therefore,  required  that,  a 

stay  order  be  made  as  an  interim  measure.  It  would  not  be  correct  to  judge 

such orders in the same strict manner as a final order. Interim orders by their 

very nature must depend a great deal on judge’s opinion as to the necessity for 

interim action.”. 

It was the view of this Court in the decision in  Duwearatchi and Another Vs. 

Vincent  Perera  and  Another  (Supra)  that  “An  interim  stay  order  in  a  writ 

application  is  an  incidental  order  made  in  the  exercise  of  the  inherent  or 

implied  powers  of  the  Court;  and  that  as  regards  the  issue  of  an  interim  stay 

order in a writ application, the Court is guided by the following principles;  

(i)  Will  the  final  order  be  rendered  nugatory  if  the  Petitioner  is 

successful? 

(ii)  Where does the balance of convenience lie?  

(iii) Will  irreparable  and  irremediable  mischief  or  injury  be  caused  to 

either party?.”. 

This Court in the decisions in  CA Application No. 336/2012  (Supra) and CA 

(WRIT)174/2017-  decided  on  08.08.2017,  cited  and  applied  with  approval 

the above three principles laid down in Duwearatchi and Another Vs. Vincent 

Perera and Another (Supra) as being the guiding principles in determining as 

to whether or not an interim stay order in a writ application should be issued.  

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 6 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
The substantive relief sought by the Petitioner in the instant application is two-

fold, namely; a) for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari quashing the 

decision of the 1st and/or 2nd and/or 3rd Respondents to interdict the Petitioner 

with  half  pay,  as  contained  in  the  letter  marked  P19,  and/or  to  quash  the 

letter  itself  in  its  entirety;  and  b)  for  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  a  Writ  of 

Mandamus  directing the 1st and/or 2nd and/or 3rd Respondents to reinstate the 

Petitioner  in  employment  in  the  marketing  function  in  the  same  grade  and 

post,  and/or  to  reinstate  the  payment  to  the  Petitioner  of  his  full  monthly 

salary and emoluments until conclusion of the disciplinary process. 

Let me now briefly,  set out below, the facts and circumstances that according 

to  the  Petitioner,  led  him  to  have  instituted  the  instant  application  for  a 

mandate in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus against the 1st, 2nd 

and 3rd Respondents;  

The  Petitioner  being  a  citizen  of  Sri  Lanka,    joined  the  Ceylon  Petroleum 

Corporation-the  1st  Respondent  as  a  clerk  grade  B/3  in  or  around  1995  and 

was  subsequently,  made  permanent  in  it  on  06.03.1999  (P1  and  P2);  that  he 

was  then  promoted  from  time  to  time  and  by  letter  dated  08.11.2010,  he  was 

assigned  covering  up  duties  in  the  post  of  Manager  Marketing;  that  He  was 

finally,  promoted  to  the  post  of  Marketing  Manager  (Retail)  by  letter  dated 

17.05.2012 (P3 and P4); that on or about 2015, the Petitioner while serving in 

his  position  as  Marketing  Manager  in  the  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation-1st 

Respondent, was transferred from the head office of the 1st Respondent to the 

Sapugaskanda  New  Terminal  Under  the  Refinery  function  for  unspecified 

duties  with  immediate  effect    pending  disciplinary  inquiry  by  letter  dated 

24.03.2015  (P5)  on an  aggregate  of  6  baseless,  unfounded,  unsubstantial  and 

misleading charges framed against him; that subsequently, he was interdicted 

on  18.08.2015(P6)  without  pay  and  issued  5  charge  sheets  dated  07.08.2015, 

14.08.2015, 03.12.2015, 01.12.2015 and 26.05.2016  (P7(a)  to  P7(e))  all  of 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 7 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
which set out and aggregate of 31 false and misconceived charges against him, 

which were responded to by individual letters addressing the charges in each of 

the  aforesaid  charge  sheets;  that  notwithstanding  comprehensive  responses 

being provided by the Petitioner to the charges against him, the 1st Respondent 

initiated  5  disciplinary  inquiries  against  him,  which  continued  until  the 

wrongful and unlawful termination of his employment on 29.12.2016 upon the 

purported findings of the inquiry related to the second and third charge sheets 

(P7(b)  and  P7(c));  the  Petitioner  challenged  both  his  unlawful  transfer  and  his 

unlawful interdiction through two separate fundamental rights applications in 

the  Supreme  Court,  but  both  were  withdrawn  by  him  consequent  to  the 

termination  of  his  services  (P9(a)  and  P9(b));  that  in  response  to  the  unlawful 

and wrongful termination of his employment, the Petitioner filed an application 

in the Labour Tribunal of Colombo praying inter-alia for reinstatement with full 

back wages and/or in the alternative, for compensation; that consequently, the 

1st  Respondent  decided  to  settle  the  matter  before  the  Labour  Tribunal  of 

Colombo  and  agreed  to  the  demand  of  the  Petitioner;  that  pursuant  to  that 

settlement,  the  Petitioner  was  reinstated  with  full  back  wages  and  without  a 

break in service by the 1st Respondent with effect from 08.02.2021 (P13); that 

consequently,  the  Petitioner  resumed,  responsibilities  in  the  position  of 

Marketing Manager (Retail) with effect from 08.02.2021 and thus, it is evident  

that, the Petitioner was not in active employment under the 1st Respondent in 

his  position  as  Marketing  Manager  (Retail)  from  the  time  he  was  wrongfully 

transferred  on  24.03.2015  through  the  period  of  his  interdiction  and 

termination  and  until  his  reinstatement  on  08.02.2021;  that  on  15.07.2024, 

the  1st  Respondent  issued  an  internal  investigation  report  on  the  charging  of 

Monthly Utility Fees (MUF) for Corporation Own Dealer Outlets (CODOs) (P15); 

that the chairman-the 2nd Respondent by virtue of the powers vested in him by 

such  Disciplinary  Rules  as  formulated  by  the  1st  Respondent  by  virtue  of 

powers vested in it by section 6 of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act No.28 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 8 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
1961  (as  amended)  (P14),  appointed  a  committee  comprising  of  Additional 

Secretary  (Investigation)  of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Administration,  Provincial  

Councils and Local Government, Dammika Muthugala, Director General of the 

Sri  Lanka  Tea  Board,  S.  M.  Anuruddha  and  the  Investigation  Officer  of  the 

Ministry of  Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, 

L.L.N. Pushpakumara to investigate certain matters relating to the alleged non 

implementation  of  Board  decisions  relating  to  the  charging  of  MUF  and/or 

Monthly  Rental  from  CODOs;  the  Committee  so  appointed  commenced  its 

investigation  and  submitted  investigation  report  dated  11.09.2024  (P16) 

recommending  W.M.K.R.B.  Wickramasinghe-Deputy  General  Manager  

(Marketing) and  W.D.L.C. Abeygunawardena-Marketing Manager (Acting) to be 

interdicted  with 

immediate  effect  and  proceed  with 

the  preliminary 

investigation;  and    S.M.C.P.  Samarakoon-Marketing  Manager-the  Petitioner  to 

be  transferred  to  a  different  location  away  from  the  marketing  function  and  a 

charge  sheet  to  be  issued  to  him  and  mete  out  punishment  following  a 

disciplinary inquiry; that the 3rd Respondent purporting to act in terms of the 

rules, more particularly, rule 9(a) and having considered the recommendations 

of  the  said  investigation  report,  transferred  the  Petitioner  away  from  the 

marketing  function  by  the  letters  dated  20.09.2024  and  24.09.2024  (P17(a) 

and P17(b)); subsequently,  the Petitioner was issued with a charge sheet dated 

02.01.2025(P18)  which  contained  an  aggregate  of  6  charges  on  the  purported 

non-implementation  of  the  Board  decision  No.  38/1140,  dated  29.10.2013 

which  sets  out  inter-alia,    the  new  formula  for  MUF  for  CODOs  and  Treasury 

Owned  Dealer  Operated  Outlets  (TODOs)  and  to  his  surprise,  he  was  also 

served with a letter of interdiction dated 03.01.2025 (P19) pending disciplinary 

inquiry  purporting  to  interdict  him  with  half  pay  following  the  preliminary 

investigation  report  (P16);  that  charges  so  framed  against  him  in  the  said 

charge  sheet  (P18)  are  entirely,  fallacious,  misleading  and  misconceived  and 

many of such charges relate to a period as far back as 10 years, namely 2013; 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 9 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
that,  charges  leveled  against  him  in  the  charge  sheet  (P18),  cannot  thus,  be 

raised against the Petitioner for the reasons set out in paragraph 27(a) and (b) 

of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner,  namely  that;  a)  they  relate  to  a  period  during 

which  the  Petitioner  had  been  transferred  out  of  his  functional  area  and/or 

was  under  interdiction  and/or  had  been  terminated  from  employment 

pursuant  to  baseless,  vindictive,  illegal  actions  against  him;  b)  that  in  any 

event,  the  1st  Respondent  had  represented  to  the  Labour  Tribunal  that  all 

matters  relating  to  the  period  upto  2018  were  taken  up  in  the  inquiry  before 

the said Tribunal, and consequently, the 1st Respondent is estopped from now 

attempting to identify further matters relating to the said period.  

Let  me  now,  examine  the  grounds  alleged  upon  which  the  instant  application 

for  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of  writs  of  Certiorari  and  Mandamus  were  sought 

by the Petitioner.  

As  can  be  clearly,  and  manifestly,  deducible  from  the  averments  in  the 

paragraphs  28,  29,  30,  31  and  32  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner,  the  first  of 

those grounds alleged being the alleged act of the Managing Director of the 1st 

Respondent,  namely;  the  3rd  Respondent,  of  subsequently  interdicting  the 

Petitioner  with  half  pay  (after  first  transferring  him  and  interdicting  other  two 

officers, namely; Deputy General Manager (Marketing) and Manager Marketing 

(Acting) 

(Vide-paragraph  23  of  the  petition) 

in  accordance  with  the 

recommendation of the committee) which according to the Petitioner, is entirely 

contrary  to  the  recommendations  of  the  1st  Respondent’s  own  committee  who 

investigated the matter and analyzed its circumstances and which according to 

the  Petitioner,  is  also  in  blatant  violation  of  and  ultra  vires  Rule  9  of  the 

Disciplinary Rules of the 1st Respondent for; according to the Petitioner, in any 

event,  it  is  apparent  that  the  said  Rules  do  not  vest  powers  in  the  Chairman 

and/or  Managing  Director  to  effect  a  transfer  and  interdiction  of  an  officer 

specially  when  the  recommendations  of  the  committee,  he  himself  appointed 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 10 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
only  recommended  the  transfer  of  the  said  officer-the  Petitioner  pending  a 

formal  disciplinary  inquiry  and  therefore,  the  action  of  the  Chairman  and/or 

Managing Director in interdicting the Petitioner with half pay in this instance is 

according to the Petitioner, unlawful, unreasonable, illegal, vindictive and steep 

in  mala  fides  and  had  been  conducted  without  any  justification  for  the  same 

demonstrating  that,  it  has  been  conducted  to  victimize  and  embarrass  the 

Petitioner vis a vis  the staff of the 1st Respondent (Vide-paragraphs 29 to 32 of 

the petition of the Petitioner).  

The  second  of  those  grounds  alleged  being  the  alleged  direct  or  indirect  

representation made by the 1st Respondent to the Labour Tribunal in the said 

Labour  Tribunal  case  bearing  No.  LT/08/148/2017  to  the  effect  that  all 

matters against the Petitioner had been brought before the Tribunal in the said 

case  and  therefore,  the  1st  Respondent  is  now,  estopped  from  identifying 

further  matters  relating  to  the  period  up-to  2018  (Vide  Paragraph  33  of  the 

petition of the Petitioner). 

The third of those grounds alleged being the alleged violation of the Principles 

of  Natural  Justice  on  the  part  of  the  1st  Respondent  by  not  allowing  further 

time  to  the  Petitioner  to  respond  to  the  said  charges  in  the  charge  sheet(P20) 

which  according  to  the  Petitioner  shows  act  of  mala  fides,  hostility  and 

vexatious  conduct  on  the  part  of  the  1st  Res[pendent  which  demonstrate  that 

Petitioner  had  been  unfairly  prejudiced,  as  he  had  not  been  given  an 

opportunity  to  be  heard  prior  to  the  disciplinary  inquiry,  thus,  violating  the 

principle of Natural Justice.   

The  Respondents,  on  the  other  hand,  vehemently,  objected  to  both  of  the 

applications of the Petitioner for a mandate in the nature of Writs of  Certiorari 

and Mandamus against the 1st and/or 2nd and/or 3rd Respondents and interim 

relief  for  the  reasons  stated  in  the  written  submissions  of  the  1st,  2nd  and  3rd 

Respondents  filed  in  this  Court,  substantive  part  thereof,  of  which  is  relevant 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 11 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
to  the  determination  of  the  instant  application  for  the  Petitioner  for  interim 

relief, will be discussed later in this order. 

As observed by me hereinbefore,  the immediate matter before this Court for its 

determination  being  the  application  of  the  Petitioner  for  an  interim  relief  of 

kind  as  prayed  for  in  prayer  ‘b’  of  his  petition  dated  29.01.2025  on  the  one 

hand  and  conversely,  the  application  of  the  1st  to  4th  Respondents  for  the 

refusal of the grant of the same on the other. 

I  must  reiterate  that,  the  instant  application  for  a  mandate  in  the  nature  of 

Writs  of  Certiorari  and  Mandamus  has  to  be  fully,  argued  and  decided  on  its 

merits  at  the  final  hearing  of  the  same,  but  at  this  stage,  this  Court  is  only 

concerned with and/or considering the issue of an interim order as prayed for 

in  prayer  (b)  of  the  petition,  as  observed  by  this  Court  in  the  decision  in  CA 

Application No. 336/2012- decided on 22.02.2013. 

In  the  light  of  the  decision  in  Duwearatchi  and  Another  Vs.  Vincent  Perera 

and  Another  (Supra),  it  is  necessary  for  this  Court  now,  to  form  a  tentative 

view, subject to a final decision at the hearing of this application for a mandate 

in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus; and that, this Court has to 

express  for  the  purpose  of  a  decision  in  respect  of  the  application  for  interim 

relief,  a  prima  facie  and  a  tentative  opinion  subject  to  a  final  decision  and  it 

should be formed on the material available on record; and that, this prima facie 

view  is  only  expressed  for  the  decision  of  the  instant  matter  before  us  and  is 

subject to a final decision; and therefore, this Court does not have to determine 

the  controversial  issues  in  the  case  at  this  stage  of  considering  the  instant  

application for interim relief.  

The pivotal issue to be considered by this Court for the issue of or non-issue of 

a interim relief of kind as asked for by the Petitioner in the instant application, 

had  been  set  out  by  the  Supreme  Court  in  the  decision  in  Billimoria  Vs 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 12 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
Minister of Lands and Land Development and Mahaweli Development and 

Two  Others  (1978-79-80)  1  SLR  10  at  page  13  that,  “In  considering  this 

question, we must bear in mind that a stay order is an incidental order made 

in the exercise of inherent or implied powers of Court. Without such power the 

Court’s  final  order  in  most  cases  would  if  the  Petitioner  is  successful,  be 

rendered nugatory and the aggrieved party will be left holding an empty decree 

worthless of all purposes.”. 

Court  in  the  decision  in  Billimoria  Vs  Minister  of  Lands  and  Land 

Development  and  Mahaweli  Development  and  Two  Others  (Supra)    further 

observed  at  page  15  that,  “The  interests  of  justice  therefore,  required  that,  a 

stay  order  be  made  as  an  interim  measure.  It  would  not  be  correct  to  judge 

such orders in the same strict manner as a final order. Interim orders by their 

very nature must depend a great deal on judge’s opinion as to the necessity for 

interim action.”. 

It was the view of this Court in the decision in  Duwearatchi and Another Vs. 

Vincent  Perera  and  Another  (Supra)  that  “An  interim  stay  order  in  a  writ 

application  is  an  incidental  order  made  in  the  exercise  of  the  inherent  or 

implied  powers  of  the  Court;  and  that  as  regards  the  issue  of  an  interim  stay 

order in a writ application, the Court is guided by the following principles;  

(i)  Will  the  final  order  be  rendered  nugatory  if  the  Petitioner  is 

successful? 

(ii)  Where does the balance of convenience lie?  

(iii) Will  irreparable  and  irremediable  mischief  or  injury  be  caused  to 

either party?.”. 

This Court in the decisions in  CA Application No. 336/2012  (Supra) and CA 

(WRIT)174/2017-  decided  on  08.08.2017,  cited  and  applied  with  approval 

the above three principles laid down in Duwearatchi and Another Vs. Vincent 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 13 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
Perera and Another (Supra) as being the guiding principles in determining as 

to whether or not an interim stay order in a writ application should be issued. 

Let me now, consider the instant application for interim relief in the light of the 

principle  enunciated  by  Court  in  the  decisions  in  Billimoria  Vs  Minister  of 

Lands and Land Development and Mahaweli Development and Two Others 

(Supra)  and  Duwearatchi  and  Another  Vs.  Vincent  Perera  and  Another 

(Supra). 

Viewed in this light, in order to succeed, the Petitioner is bound to establish to 

the  satisfaction  of  this  Court  in  the  first  place,  that  the  final  order  will  be 

rendered  nugatory  if,  the  Petitioner  is  successful.  In  other  words,  the  pivotal 

question  that  should  be  asked  by  this  Court;  Will  the  final  order  be  rendered 

nugatory if the Petitioner is successful? 

In  this  context,  the  pivotal  question  that  would  arise  for  our  consideration  is; 

Would  the  final  order  of  this  Court  in  the  instant  case,  if  the  Petitioner  is 

successful,  be  rendered  nugatory  and  will  he  be  left  holding  an  empty  decree 

worthless of all purposes?. 

It  is  in  this  backdrop,  let  me  now,  examine  the  nature  of  the  interim  relief 

sought by the Petitioner in prayer (b) of his petition and it may be reproduced 

verbatim the same as follows;   

“For  an  interim  order  staying  the  decision  of  the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd 

Respondents  to  interdict  the  Petitioner  with  half  pay  as  set  out  in  the  letter 

marked  (P19),  and/or  directing  the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd  Respondents  to 

make full payment of the Petitioner’s salary and emoluments during the period 

of his interdiction;”. 

A careful analysis of the interim relief so sought by the Petitioner in prayer (b) 

of the petition makes it abundantly, clear that, it is a mix of two interim orders 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 14 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
of kind as sought together in single prayer of the petition by the Petitioner and 

they may, conveniently, be split into two as follows; 

1)  For an interim order staying the decision of the 1st and/or 2nd and/or 3rd 

Respondents  to  interdict  the  Petitioner  with  half  pay  as  set  out  in  the 

letter marked (P19); 

2)  For an interim order directing the 1st and/or 2nd and/or 3rd Respondents 

to  make  full  payment  of  the  Petitioner’s  salary  and  emoluments  during 

the period of his interdiction; 

1 and 2 referred to above, would I think, call for separate treatment.  

1)  For  an  interim  order  staying  the  decision  of  the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or 

3rd Respondents to interdict the Petitioner with half pay as set out in the 

letter marked (P19); 

It  is  in  this  context,  the  pivotal  question  that  would  now,  arise  for  our 

consideration is; Would the final order of this Court in the instant case, if the 

Petitioner  is  successful,  be  rendered  nugatory  and  will  he  be  left  holding  an 

empty  decree  worthless  of  all  purposes  if  interim  order  of  this  kind  is  not 

granted by this Court at this early stage of this case?. 

It may now, be examined. 

If  the  Petitioner  satisfies  this  Court  of  the  existence  of  those  three  grounds 

alleged by him, as enumerated above, at the hearing of the instant application 

which  is  the  pivotal  basis  upon  which  Writs  of  kind  as  asked  for  by  him  in 

prayer (c) and (d) of his petition are entirely based on, this Court will no doubt, 

hold with the Petitioner and then, the impugned decision of the 1st and/or 2nd 

and/or  3rd  Respondents  to  interdict  the  Petitioner  with  half  pay  as  set  out  in 

the  letter  marked  (P19)  will  certainly,  be  quashed  by  this  Court  by  way  of  a 

Writ of Certiorari  and also will proceed to issue a Writ of  Mandamus directing 

the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd  Respondents  to  reinstate  the  Petitioner  in 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 15 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
employment  in  the marketing  function  in  the  same  grade  and  post,  and/or  to 

reinstate  the  payment  to  the  Petitioner  of  his  full  monthly  salary  and 

emoluments until conclusion of the disciplinary process. In the circumstances,  

non-issue  of  a  interim  stay  order  of  kind  as  asked  for  by  the  Petitioner  in  the 

first  limb  of  prayer  (b)  of  the  petition  will  not  render  nugatory  the  final  relief 

which will be obtained by the Petitioner in the instant application and as such 

the Petitioner will not in any manner, be left holding an empty decree worthless 

of all purposes if interim order of this kind is not granted by this Court at this 

early stage of this case.  

Hence, I would hold that the Petitioner has not been able to satisfy this Court 

that, the final order/relief that may be obtained by him at the conclusion of the 

hearing,  will  be  rendered  nugatory  if  the  Petitioner  is  successful,  if  this  Court 

does not issue interim stay order of kind as asked for by the Petitioner in the 

first limb of the prayer (b) of the petition at this early stage of this case.   

In  the  circumstances,  It  would  clearly,  appear  to  me  that,  the  balance  of 

convenience  too,  does  not  favour  issuing  of  a  kind  of  interim  stay  order  as 

asked for by the Petitioner in the first limb of prayer (b) of the petition. 

Moreover,  in  the  circumstances,  it  cannot  in  any  manner,  be  said  that 

irreparable and irremediable mischief or injury will be caused to the Petitioner 

by non-issuance of interim stay order of kind as asked for by the Petitioner in 

the first limb of the prayer (b) of the petition at this early stage of this case for; 

If  the  Petitioner  satisfies  this  Court  of  the  existence  of  those  three  grounds 

alleged by him, as enumerated above, at the hearing of the instant application 

which  is  the  pivotal  basis  upon  which  Writs  of  kind  as  asked  for  by  him  in 

prayer (c) and (d) of his petition are entirely based on, this Court will no doubt, 

hold with the Petitioner and then, the impugned decision of the 1st and/or 2nd 

and/or  3rd  Respondents  to  interdict  the  Petitioner  with  half  pay  as  set  out  in 

the  letter  marked  (P19)  will  certainly,  be  quashed  by  this  Court  by  way  of  a 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 16 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
Writ of Certiorari  and also will proceed to issue a Writ of  Mandamus directing 

the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd  Respondents  to  reinstate  the  Petitioner  in 

employment  in  the marketing  function  in  the  same  grade  and  post,  and/or  to 

reinstate  the  payment  to  the  Petitioner  of  his  full  monthly  salary  and 

emoluments until conclusion of the disciplinary process. 

For the reasons stated above, I would hold that, the Petitioner is not entitled to 

a  interim  stay  order  of  kind  as  asked  for  by  the  Petitioner  in  the  first  limb  of 

prayer (b) of the petition as rightly, contended by the learned State Counsel for 

the Respondents.    

Relying  on  the  decisions  in  D.  S.  Gunasekara  Passenger  Transport  Services 

Pvt  Ltd  Vs.  The  National  Transport  Commission  and  4  others-CA  (WRIT) 

174/2017-decided  on  08.08.2017,  Shell  Gas  Lanka  Ltd  Vs.  Samyang 

Lanka  (Pvt)  Ltd  [2005]  3  SLR  14    and  Ceylon  Tobacco  Company  PLC  Vs. 

Hon. Maithripala Sirisena and Two Others-CA. Application No. 336/2012-

Decide  on  22.02.2013,  it  was  contended  by  the  learned  State  Counsel  that, 

granting  of  interim  relief  in  the  form  of  suspending  the  interdiction  would,  in 

practical effect, amount to the grant of the final relief sought by the Petitioner, 

namely;  the  reversal  of  his  interdiction  and  reinstatement  to  his  position  as 

Manager  (Marketing)  for;  it  is  well  established  that  where  the  interim  relief 

sought  is  substantially  identical  to  the  final  relief,  such  interim  relief  is  not 

generally  granted  in  view  of  the  fact  that  interim  relief  by  its  very  nature,  is 

intended to preserve the status quo pending the final determination and not to 

preemptively grant the ultimate remedy sought by a party (Vide paragraphs 40 

to 47 of the written submissions of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Respondents). 

Relying  on  the  decisions  in  People’s  Bank  and  7  Others  Vs.  Yasasiri 

Kasthuriarachchi 2010 1 SLR and Shell Gas Lanka Ltd Vs. Samyang Lanka 

(Pvt) Ltd [2005] 3 SLR 14 the Petitioner, on the other hand, sought to counter 

the said contention of Respondents by contending that when there is, a strong 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 17 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
prima  facie  case  in  favour  of  the  party  seeking  the  relief  it  is  permissible  to 

grant  interim  relief  which  give  substantially,  the  whole  of  the  relief  claimed  in 

the  action.    It  is  thus,  manifest  that,  the  Petitioner  himself  concedes  without 

any  reservation  by  seeking  to  counter  the  contention  of  the  Respondents  in 

that  manner  on  thrust  of  that  argument  that  the  interim  relief  so  sought  by 

him  is  substantially  the  same  as  the  final  relief  sought  by  him  against  the 

Respondents as alleged by them.  

It may now, be examined.  

It  is  trite  law  that,  it  would  be  permissible  to  grant  relief  which  gives 

substantially, the whole of the relief claimed in the action in a case where it is 

plainly, seen that, there was no defence whereas, there is a strong  prima facie 

case for the party seeking the relief.  

Now,  the  question  is  whether  there  is  a  there  is  a  strong  prima  facie  case  for 

the Petitioner seeking the relief and conversely, whether it is plainly, seen that 

there is no defence.  

It may now be examined. 

The  Petitioner  in  this  case,  seeks  to  quash  the  impugned  decision  of  the  1st 

and/or 2nd and/or 3rd Respondents to interdict the Petitioner with half pay as 

set out in the letter marked (P19) by way of a mandate in the nature of a Writ 

of  Certiorari.  (Vide-prayer  (c)  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner.)  and  the  pivotal  

basis  therefor  being  the  act  of  the  Managing  Director-3rd  Respondent,  of 

subsequently,  interdicting  the  Petitioner  with  half  pay  after  first  transferring 

him  and 

interdicting 

two  other  officers 

in  accordance  with 

the 

recommendations  of 

said 

committee, 

is 

entirely 

contrary 

to 

the 

recommendations of the 1st Respondent’s own committee who investigated the 

matter and analyzed its circumstances  and is also in blatant violation of and 

ultra vires Rule 09 of the disciplinary rules of the 1st Respondent (P14).   

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 18 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
However, the extracts of the minutes pertaining to the meeting of the Board of 

Directors  of  the  1st  Respondent  held  on  18.12.2024,  a  copy  of  which  was 

submitted  to  Court  along  with  the  motion  dated  14.02.2025  filed  of  record, 

marked  as  X2,  by  the  Attorney-At-Law  for  the  1st  to  3rd  Respondents  with  a 

copy  to  the  registered  Attorney-At-Law  for  the  Petitioner  which  was  not 

disputed but, relied on by the Petitioner in his written submissions clearly, and 

unequivocally, shows that, at the ratification of the minute on 18.12.2024, the 

Chairman informed the Board that the final investigation report was submitted 

by  the  independent  investigation  committee  and  distributed  a  copy  of  the 

report  for  the  attention  of  the  Board;  that  the  Chairman  also  informed  the 

Board  that  CLO  was  directed  to  take  subsequent  action  including  serving 

charge  sheets  and  to  implement  the  recommendation  of  the  report;  that  the 

Board  of  Directors  instructed  to  expedite  the  disciplinary  process  and  to  take 

appropriate  action  with  regard  to  the  accused  employees  since  the  Marketing 

Function  is  a  key  function  which  handles  the  core-business  of  CPC;  that  the 

Board of Directors was of the view that the Manager (Marketing)-the Petitioner 

who  is  transferred  to  the  Shipping  Function,  following  the  recommendation  of 

the  interim  report  on  MUF,  should  be  interdicted  upon  serving  charge  sheet 

until  the  disciplinary  action  on  all  three  of  them  are  completed  and  decisions 

taken  on  each  of  them  for;  this  measure  was  taken  in  order  to  avoid  any 

possible  prejudice/  biasness  in  the  disciplinary  process  while,  any  of  them  is 

serving in the corporation during the process.  

Upon a careful scrutiny of the extracts of the minutes pertaining to the meeting 

of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  1st  Respondent  held  on  18.12.2024  (X2),  it 

unmistakably,  shows,  that  the  decision  to  interdict  the  Manager  (Marketing)- 

the  Petitioner  who  was  then,  on  transfer  away  from  his  Marketing  Function 

following  the  recommendation  of  the  interim  report  of  MUF  (P16),  was  a 

decision  taken  by  the  Board  of  Directors  at  its  meeting  held  on  18.12.2024  

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 19 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
and  therefore,  it  was  a  decision  that  had  directly,  derived  from  the  said 

decision of a Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent taken as aforesaid.  

It is to be observed that the letter of interdiction (P19) which followed the said 

decision of the Board of Directors contained in X2 does not state that it was a 

decision by the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent taken on 18.12.2024 

at  its  meeting  after  having  scrutinized  the  final  report  submitted  and 

recommendations  made  by  the  said  committee  regarding  those  three  officers 

including  the  Petitioner  on  the  non-implementation  of  the  Board  Decision 

relating to the charging of MUF from CODOs.  

However,  it  is  beyond  any  doubt  upon  careful  scrutiny  of  the  minutes  of  the 

meeting of the Board of Directors as contained in X2 that, decision to interdict 

the  Petitioner  was  purely,  a  decision  by  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  1st 

Respondent  taken  on  18.12.2024  at  its  meeting  after  having  scrutinized  the 

final  report  submitted  and  recommendations  made  by  the  said  committee 

regarding 

those 

three  officers 

including 

the  Petitioner  on 

the  non-

implementation  of  the  Board  Decision  relating  to  the  charging  of  MUF  from 

CODOs  for  the  best  interest  of  the  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation-1st 

Respondent  and  to  avoid  any  possible  prejudice/  biasness  in  the  disciplinary 

process while, any of them is serving in the corporation during the process as 

duly,  empowered  and  authorized  it  by  Rule  09(a)  of  the  Disciplinary  Rules  of 

the  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation  formulated  by  it  by  virtue  of  the  powers 

vested  in  it  by  section  6  of  the  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation  Act  No.  28  of 

1961 (as amended)(P14).  

Hence,  Rule  09(a)  of  the  Disciplinary  Rules  of  the  Ceylon  Petroleum 

Corporation formulated by it by virtue of the powers vested in it by section 6 of 

the  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation  Act  No.  28  of  1961  (as  amended)(P14) 

confers upon the 1st Respondent to interdict its employee pending disciplinary 

action  against  him  and  in  this  instance,  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Ceylon 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 20 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
Petroleum  Corporation-  1st  Respondent  had  clearly,  taken  a  decision  to 

interdict the Petitioner pending disciplinary action against him by virtue of the 

powers conferred upon it by Rule 09(a) of the Disciplinary Rules of the Ceylon 

Petroleum Corporation formulated by it  by virtue of the powers vested in it by 

section  6  of  the  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation  Act  No.  28  of  1961  (as 

amended)(P14).  

The  decision  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  1st  Respondent  to  interdict  the 

Petitioner  pending  disciplinary  action  against  him  prima  facie    appears  to  be 

intra vires and not ultra vires as alleged by the Petitioner.  

Hence, it prima facie appears that there was no strong prima facie case for the 

Petitioner  seeking  the  said  interim  relief  in  the  instant  action  whereas,  it  is 

plainly,  seen  that,  there  was  a  prima  facie  a  strong  defence  for  the 

Respondents. 

Therefore,  it  would  not  be  permissible  to  grant  a  kind  of  interim  relief  which 

gives substantially, the whole of the relief claimed in the instant action by the 

Petitioner  inasmuch  as  it  is  plainly,  seen  that,  there  was  prima  facie  a  strong 

defence for the Respondents whereas, there was no strong  prima facie case for 

the Petitioner seeking the kind of interim relief as prayed for in prayer (b) of his 

petition as rightly, contended by the learned State Counsel.  

I would therefore hold, that kind of interim relief as prayed for in prayer (b) of 

his  petition  by  the  Petitioner  cannot,  be  granted  both  in  fact  and  law  on  this 

ground too.  

In view of the above, I would hold that the Petitioner is not entitled to the kind 

of interim relief as prayed for in the first limb of prayer (b) of his petition by the 

Petitioner both in fact and law and therefore, it ought to be rejected in limine.  

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 21 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
2)  For  an  interim  order  directing  the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd 

Respondents  to  make  full  payment  of  the  Petitioner’s  salary  and 

emoluments during the period of his interdiction; 

Here  again,  Disciplinary  Rules  of  Ceylon  Petroleum  Corporation-the  1st 

Respondent (P14) which were heavily relied on by the Petitioner in proof of his 

case, are important and material and Rule 09(b)(i) thereof, provides that,  non-

payment  or  the  payment  of  one  half  of  the  emoluments  of  an  officer  under 

interdiction  for  the  period  of  interdiction  is  decided  by  the  disciplinary 

authority,  and  Rule  09(b)(iv)  thereof,  defines  the  term  “emoluments”  to  mean, 

the emoluments of his substantive post. It should not include any allowance in 

the nature of a duty allowance, or a reimbursement of expenditure incurred on 

official duty such as traveling, transport and combined allowance.   

It  is  to  be  borne  in  mind  that,  as  submitted  by  the  Petitioner  himself  by 

paragraphs  19  and  20  of  his  Petition  that,  those  Disciplinary  Rules  of  Ceylon 

Petroleum  Corporation-the  1st  Respondent  (P14)  were  formulated  by  the  1st 

Respondent  by  virtue  of  the  powers  vested  in  it  by  section  6  of  the  Ceylon 

Petroleum  Corporation  Act  No.  28  of  1961  (as  amended)  binding  all  the 

employees thereof in relation to the matters set out therein.  

Upon  a  careful  scrutiny  of  Rule  9(b)  of  the  Disciplinary  Rules  of  Ceylon 

Petroleum  Corporation-the  1st  Respondent  (P14),  it  manifestly,  shows  that,  it 

does  not  confer  any  power  or  authority  upon  the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd 

Respondents  to  reinstate  the  payment  to  the  Petitioner  of  his  full  monthly 

salary and emoluments until conclusion of the disciplinary process. 

In  the  light  of  Rule  9(b)  of  the  Disciplinary  Rules  of  Ceylon  Petroleum 

Corporation  which  were  formulated  by  virtue  of  the  powers  vested  in  the  1st 

Respondent (P14) under section 6 of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act No. 

28 of 1961 (as amended), it clearly, appears to me that this Court has no power 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 22 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
to  issue  an  interim  stay  order  directing  the  1st  and/or  2nd  and/or  3rd 

Respondents  to  reinstate  to  reinstate  the  payment  to  the  Petitioner  of  his  full 

monthly salary and emoluments until conclusion of the disciplinary process in 

contravention  of  Rule  9(b)  of  the  Disciplinary  Rules  of  Ceylon  Petroleum 

Corporation-the 1st Respondent (P14).   

I would therefore, hold that kind of interim relief prayed for in the second limb 

of  prayer  (b)  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner  too,  cannot  be  granted  by  this 

Court both in fact and law. 

In view of the above, I would hold that the Petitioner is not entitled to the kind 

of  interim  relief  as  prayed  for  in  the  second  limb  of  prayer  (b)  of  his  petition 

both in fact and law and therefore, it ought to be rejected in limine.  

In view of all the circumstances, I would hold that, the Petitioner is not entitled 

to the kind of interim relief as prayed for either in the first limb or the second 

limb of prayer (b) of his petition both in fact and law and therefore, it ought to 

be rejected in limine.  

In the result, I would refuse to grant the kind of interim relief as prayed for in 

prayer (b) of the petition of the Petitioner.  

I would thus, dismiss the application for interim relief as prayed for in prayer 

(b) of the petition of the Petitioner with costs. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA). 

I agree. 

PRESIDENT (ACTING) OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

CA/WRT/0056/2025 

Page 23 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
