IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application under and 
in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka,  for  Mandates  in  the  nature  of  a  
Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition. 

Maxwell de Silva 
Secretary General, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

PETITIONER                   

CA Writ 25/2025 

Vs. 

1.  Hon. Sunil Kumara Gamage  

Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports, 
No. 9, Phillip Gunawardena Mawatha, 
Colombo 7. 

2.  A.H.M.U. Anura Bandara 

Secretary, 
Ministery of Youth Affairs and Sports, 
No. 9, Phillip Gunawardena Mawatha, 
Colombo 7. 

3. 

Surendran Subramaniam 
President, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

4.  Gamini Jayasinghe 

Treasurer, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

5. 

Joseph Kenny 
Vice President, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

6.  Niloo Jayatilake 
Vice President, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

7. 

Suranjith Premadasa 
Vice President, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

8.  Kanchana Jayaratne 
Vice President, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

9.  Chandana Liyanage 
Assistant Secretary, 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 

11. 

12. 

National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

Shirantha Peiris 
Assistant Treasurer, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

Sarath Hewawitharana 
Member, Executive Board, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

Sarath Ruwan Alahakoon 
Member, Executive Board, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

13.  Niluka Karunaratne 

Member, Executive Board, 
National Olympic Committee, 
No. 100/9 F, 
Independence Avenue, 
Colombo 7. 

14.  Rear Admiral (Prof.) Shemal Fernando 

Director General of Sports, 
Department of Sports Development, 
No. 9, Phillip Gunawardena Mawatha, 
Colombo 7. 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.  Wanniarachchige Jagath Hemantha 

Fonseka 
No. 125/41, Takshila Uyana, 
Pannipitiya Road, 
Battaramulla. 

16.  N.R.M. Dharmasiri 

No.30/7A, Mawathgama, 
Homagama. 

17.  Dinal Phillips, PC, 

No. 26, 
Charles Place, 
Colombo 3. 

18. 

Seevali Jayawickrema 
No. 26, 
Charles Place, 
Colombo 3. 

19.  Ashan Stanislaus 

No. 26, 
Charles Place, 
Colombo 3. 

                                               RESPONDENTS            

Before 

: 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

Damith Thotawatta, J. 

Counsel 

: 

Ikram Mohamed, PC with Roshaan 
Hettiarachchi, Chamath Jayasena and H. 
Balakrishnan instructed by Maduranga 
Gamage for the Petitioner. 
Manohara Jayasinghe, DSG for the 1st and 
2nd Respondents. 
Dr. Romesh De Silva, PC with Niran 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anketell and Vasanthakumar Niels 
instructed by Sanath Wijewardena for the 
3rd and 6th  Respondents. 
Hijas Hisbullah with Piyumi Seneviratne 
instructed by Eranga Pinnaduwa for the 
9th Respondent. 

03.03.2025, 12.03.2025, 19.03.2025 

30.04.2025 

Argued on 

Decided on   

: 

: 

Dhammika Ganepola, J.             

The Petitioner, the Secretary General of the National Olympic Committee 
of  Sri  Lanka  [NOCSL]  has  filed  this  application  seeking  inter  alia  Writs  in 
the  nature  of  Writs  of  Certiorari  to  quash  the  documents  marked  P1 
dated  04.09.2024,  P2  dated  10.01.2025,  P3  dated  12.01.2025  and  P4 
dated  15.01.2025  and  a  Writ  in  the  nature  of  Writ  of  Prohibition 
prohibiting the 3rd Respondent preventing the Petitioner from functioning 
as and/or interfering with the functions of the Petitioner as the Secretary 
General of the NOCSL. 

When this matter was taken up for support on 24.01.2024, having heard 
the  submissions  made  by  the  learned  President’s  Counsel  for  the 
Petitioner, the Court issued formal notices on the Respondent after being 
satisfied that there is a matter to be looked into at the stage of hearing. 
After  issuing  the  formal  notices  on  the  Respondents,  the  learned 
President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  supported  the  application  for  the 
interim  reliefs  prayed  for  in  the  prayer,  moving  the  Court  to  issue  an 
interim order pending the hearing and determination of this application: 

i. 

suspending 
the  operation  of,  and/or  recommendations 
contained in, the document marked P1 made by the members 
of the Ethics Committee; and/or 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii. 

iii. 

suspending  the  purported  approval  granted  by  the  1st 
Respondent  to  the  2nd  Respondent  to  suspend  the  Petitioner 
by letter marked P2 and operation of said letter; and/or 

suspending the operation of the directions and/or prohibitions 
contained in the letters marked P3 and P4, except in respect of 
the  Petitioner’s  functions/activities  at  the  Olympic  Council  of 
Asia. 

The  learned  D.S.G.  for  the  1st,2nd,  and  13th  to  16th  Respondents,  the 
learned  President’s  Counsel  for  the  3rd  and  6th  Respondents,  and  the 
learned Counsel for the 9th Respondent made submissions opposing the 
application. The scope of this order is limited to considering whether such 
an interim application should be allowed or not. 

The factors guiding the issuance of interim orders include the existence of 
a  prima  facie  case,  the  potential  for  irreparable  injury,  the  balance  of 
convenience,  and  the  appropriateness  of  the  case.  The  Indian  Supreme 
Court in the case of Bank of Maharashtra v. Race Shipping and Transport 
Co. Prv Ltd AIR 1995 SC  1368 has deprecated the practice of granting of 
interim  orders  which  practically  give  the  principal  relief  sought  in  the 
Petition for no better reason than that a prima facia case has been made 
out,  without  being  concerned  about  the  balance  of  convenience,  the 
public interest and a host of other considerations. 

At the outset, it must be noted that this is a situation where the Petitioner 
seeks  interim  relief  after  the  Court  has  issued  formal  notices  on  the 
Respondents,  being  satisfied  that  there  is  an  appropriate  matter  to  be 
looked into. However, the mere fact that the Court has been satisfied that 
there is an appropriate question on which the case can properly proceed 
does not necessarily be considered as a cause for the issuance of interim 
relief  as  prayed.  Certain  other  factors  also  need  to  be  considered  in 
considering an application for interim relief. 

In the case of F Hoffmann La-Roche Ltd and Another vs National Medicine 
Regulatory  Authority  and  Others  [CA  (Writ)  Application  No.  98/2016;  CA 
Minutes of 22nd June 2016], the Court has observed that: 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
“If  the  argument  of  the  Learned  Counsel  for  the  petitioners  that 
court  should  extend  the  operation  of  the  interim  relief  it  had 
granted, on the basis that the petitioners have made  out a ‘Prima 
facie  sustainable  case’,  is  to  be  accepted,  this  court  will  have  to 
issue  interim  reliefs  every  time  it  decides  to  issue  notices  on  the 
respondents.  This is because court decides to issue notices on the 
respondents since it is satisfied that there is a prima facie case to be 
looked into”. 

In Duwearachchi and Another v. Vincent Perera and Others [1984] (2) Sri LR 
94,  this  Court  set  out  the  following  as  the  three  matters  that  must  be 
examined when considering an application for an interim order: 

(a) Will  the  final  order  be  rendered  nugatory  if  the  petitioner  is 

successful? 

(b) Where does the balance of convenience lie? 

(c) Will irreparable and irremediable mischief or injury be caused to 

either party? 

including 

This  Court  has  consistently  followed  the  decision  in  Duwearachchi  in 
in  Ceylon  Tobacco  Company  PLC  vs  Hon. 
several  cases, 
Maithripala Sirisena, Minister of Health and others [CA (Writ Application 
No.  336/2012;  CA  Minutes  of  22nd  February  2013].  Tokyo  Super  Cement 
Company Lanka (Private) Limited vs Sri Lanka Ports Authority and others, 
[CA  (Writ)  Application  No.  258/2013;  CA  Minutes  of  30th  August  2013.] 
Nat  Wealth  Securities  Lanka  (Private)  Limited  vs  The  Monetary  Board  of 
the  Central  Bank  and  others  [CA  (Writ)  Application  No.  335/2015;  CA 
Minutes  of  29th  March  2016.],  F  Hoffmann  La-Roche  Ltd  and  another  vs 
National Medicines Regulatory Authority and others [CA (Writ) Application 
No.  335/2015;  CA  Minutes  of  29th  March  2016.]  and  Wadugodage 
Wijeratne  vs  Faiszer Mustapha,  Minister of  Provincial  Councils  and  Local 
Government  and  another.  [CA  (Writ)  Application  No.  373/2017;  CA 
Minutes of 22nd  November 2017].  Accordingly,  the above principles have 
become  the  established  guidelines  regarding  the  issuance  of  interim 
relief.   

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
Will the Final Order be Rendered Nugatory if the Petitioner is Successful? 

In  the  instant  application  the  final  reliefs  which  the  Petitioner  seeks  are 
the  Writs  of  Certiorari  to  quash  the  documents  marked  P1  dated 
04.09.2024,  P2  dated  10.01.2025,  P3  dated  12.01.2025  and  P4  dated 
15.01.2025  and  the  Writ  of  Prohibition  prohibiting  the  3rd  Respondent 
preventing  the  Petitioner  from  functioning  and  /or  interfering  with  the 
functions  of  the  Petitioner  as  the  Secretary  General  of  the  NOCSL.  The 
interim  reliefs  that  the  Petitioner  seeks  are  to  suspend  the  operation  of 
the  contents  of  the  documents  marked  P1,  P2,  P3  and  P4.  Accordingly, 
the  Court  will  have  to  consider  whether  not  granting  the  interim  reliefs 
would render the final order nugatory if the Petitioner is successful.  

is  the 

The  document  marked  P1  contains  the  recommendations  made  by  the 
Ethics Committee of the NOCSL to the NOCSL to take immediate action to 
suspend  the  Petitioner  from  holding  the  office  of  Secretary  General  of 
NOCSL  pending  investigation.  The  document  P2  contain  the  approval 
granted  by  the  1st  Respondent  to  the  2nd  Respondent  to  suspend  the 
Petitioner  from  holding  the  office  of  Secretary  General  of  NOCSL  with 
issued  by  the  3rd  Respondent 
letter 
immediate  effect.  P3 
suspending the Petitioner from holding the office of Secretary General of 
the  NOCSL  pending  investigations.  The  Petitioner  asserts  that  the 
document  marked  P4  is  a  letter  issued  by  the  3rd  Respondent,  which 
interferes  with  the  lawful  duties  and  functions  of  the  Petitioner.  When 
considering  the  contents  of  the  documents  marked  P3  and  P4,  it  is 
apparent that the Petitioner has been suspended from holding office and 
barred from functioning in the office of the Secretary General of NOCSL 
pending investigations. 
Hence,  the  Petitioner  has  sought  a  Writ  of  prohibition  against  the  3rd 
Respondent, preventing the Petitioner from functioning as the Secretary 
General  of  NOCSL  and  interfering  with  the  duties  and  functions  of  the 
office that would deem the final relief rendered nugatory if the Petitioner 
is successful, unless the interim relief is issued.  Accordingly, I am of the 
view that the Petitioner is able to pass the 1st hurdle of the test.  

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
Where does the balance of convenience lie? 

Where a Petitioner passes the aforesaid first test, the Court should then 
move  to  consider  where  the  balance  of  convenience  lies.  In  such 
circumstances,  the  Court  must  consider  whether  the  harm  that  the 
Respondents  may  endure  where  the  interim  relief  is  granted  is  greater 
than the harm that the  Petitioner may encounter if  the same is denied. 
However, even if the Court determines that the Petitioner is entitled for 
the interim reliefs sought and that the Petitioner should function  as the 
General  Secretary  of  the  NOCSL,  considering  the  contents  of  the  letter 
marked  X8(C),  it  appears  that  the  Petitioner  will  not  be  able  to  perform 
his duties functions in such office. Because the letter X8(C) provides that 
the International Olympic Committee expects that any NOCSL official who 
is currently under investigation or sanction will simply stay away from the 
NOCSL and has decided only to consider the communications addressed 
and signed by the President of the NOCSL on behalf of the NOCSL as per 
the letter marked X8(C). Hence, even if the Court decides to grant interim 
relief as prayed for, the Petitioner will not be able to perform duties as the 
General  Secretary  as  the  Petitioner  expects.  Thus,  I  view  that  no  harm 
would be caused to the Petitioner if the interim reliefs sought are refused. 
Further,  it  was  submitted  that  the  Petitioner  holding  the  office  of  the 
General Secretary of the NOCSL would impede the responsible authorities 
from carrying out an impartial and independent investigation against the 
Petitioner. Accordingly, I hold that the balance of convenience does not lie 
with the Petitioner. 

Will  irreparable  and  irremediable  mischief  or  injury  be  caused  to  either 
party? 

It is stated that the Petitioner is holding the post of Secretary General of 
NOCSL  as  an  honorary  office.  There  is  no  material  to  support  the  claim 
that  the  Petitioner  would  suffer  any  monetary  loss  and/or  any  non-
pecuniary  loss  as  a  result  of  him  been  suspended  from  the  said  office. 
Further, it was submitted that owing to the fact that the internal disputes 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
and  ethical  issues  raised  by  the  Ethics  Committee  of  NOCSL  remained 
unaddressed, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the Olympic 
Council  of  Asia  (OCA)  have  taken  steps  to  suspend  the  funding  to  the 
National  Olympic  Committee  except  for  direct  payments  to  athletes 
benefiting  from  Olympic  scholarships  (see  document  X8(a)).  Such 
suspension of funding would have a severe negative impact on NOCSL in 
various  ways,  such  as  training  athletes  and  coaches,  providing 
for  them  and  conducting  educational  programmes. 
sponsorships 
Accordingly,  it  appears  that  no  irreparable  and/or  irremediable  mischief 
or injury would be caused to the Petitioner. However, such a suspension 
of funding would make an insufferable impact not only on the NOCSL but 
also on the national sports industry of Sri Lanka.  

In the above circumstances, I hold that in the instant case, the balance of 
convenience does not lie with the Petitioner and that no irreparable and 
irremediable mischief or injury would be caused to the Petitioner where 
the  interim  reliefs  are  not  granted.  For  the  foregoing  reasons,  I  see  no 
reason to issue interim reliefs as prayed for in the prayer of the Petition. 
Accordingly, the application for interim relief is dismissed.    

                                                                                 Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Damith Thotawatta, J. 

        I agree. 

                                                                                 Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
