CA Bail 0466-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 

Application No.                      Lanka 

CA Bail 0466/2024 

COMPLAINANT    

                Vs. 

High Court of Homagama   1. Lanka Keerthi Bandara   

Case No: 82/2022 

 Abeynayake 

      2. Vidanage Don Isuru Prabath  

Vidanarachchi 

      3. Samaratunga Arachchilage Don  

Chaminda Samarasinghe 

      4. Don Thanuja Ranasinghe (Deceased) 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

ACCUSED       

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                             
CA Bail 0466-2024 

Samaratunga Arachchige Dona Dulanjali 

Anjalika Samaratunga 

No. 73/B2, Niwdawa Road, Arukgoda, 

Alubomulla. 

     Vs. 

PETITIONER 

1.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

2.  Th Officer-in-Charge 

Police Narcotics Bureau 

Colombo-01. 

3.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Headquarter of Special Task Force, 

Gonahena, Kadawatha.  

RESPONDENTS 

Samaratunga Arachchilage Don 

Chaminda Samarasinghe 

(Detained in Colombo Remand Prison) 

3rd ACCUSED-RESPONDENT 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
                  
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0466-2024 

COUNSEL                    : 

Kasun  Liyanage  with  Thilakkana 

Indunil for the Petitioner.  

Tharaka  Kodagoda,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

26/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

21/05/2025. 

***************************** 

        ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the father of the 3rd Accused (Hereinafter referred to as 

the  Accused)  named  in  the  High  Court of  Homagama  bearing  case  No. 

HC 82/2022.  

According  to  the  B  report  submitted  by  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau, 

Cololmbo-1,  the  Accused  and  03  others  were  arrested  upon  an 

investigation carried out consequent to a tip off received by the officers 

attached  to  the  Special  task  Force,  Gonahena  Camp.  As  per  the 

information  when  the  STF  officers  entered  the  suspected  house,  found 

the Accused with three other persons seated together and packing some 

substance.  As  the  substance  reacted  for  Heroin,  all  were  arrested  and 

handed over to the Police Narcotics Bureau for further investigation. The 

gross quantity of the contraband weighed about 1.068 kilograms.    

Upon  a  Court  order  the  contraband  had  been  sent  to  the  Government 

Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst Report dated 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
 
 
CA Bail 0466-2024 

29.10.2021, 572.16 grams of pure Heroin (Diacetylmorphine) had been 

detected in parcel sent for analysis.        

The Accused was produced along with others in the Magistrate Court of 

Kesbewa  and  facts  were  reported  under  Section  54A  (d)  and  (b)  of  the 

Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act 

No.13 of 1984. 

Upon a Court order the Accused and three others were placed under a 

detention  order  to  facilitate  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau  to  conduct 

further investigation with regard to the detection. 

The  Petitioner  alleges  that  the  Accused  along  with  three  others  were 

taken  into  custody  by  the  Special  Task  Force  on  a  mere  conjecture 

without any reasonable suspicion. The Petitioner further alleges that no 

Heroin or any other contraband had been detected from the Accused and 

the others. At present the 4th Accused had been passed way.  

The  Petitioner  submit  that  the  Accused  and  two  others  had  been  in 

remand for little over 4 years. Indictment has already been sent to the 

High Court of Homagama.  

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  Non-existence of a prima-facie case against the Accused. 

2.  Improbability of the version of the prosecution. 

3.  The Accused has been in remand custody for little over 4 years. 

4.  Existence  of  material  contradictions  in  the  report  filed  by  the 

investigation authority. 

5.  The Accused is the sole breadwinner of the family.   

The State opposing to bail submitted that the dossier of the investigations 

has been received by the Attorney General’s Department and registered 

under CR3/77/2022. After the consideration of the same an indictment 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 0466-2024 

against the accused along with 03 others had been filed in the High Court 

of Homagama.  Hence, Learned State Counsel submitted that the delay 

is  not  an  exceptional  circumstance  to  be  considered  to  enlarge  the 

Accused  on  bail.  Further,  the  time  spent  for  preparing  the  indictment 

does not constitute an exceptional circumstance.  

The Accused is in remand little over 4 years. According to Government 

Analyst Report, the pure quantity of Heroin detected from the possession 

of the 2nd Suspect and others is 572.6 grams.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0466-2024 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In this case, the pure quantity of Heroin detected in the production by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  572.16  grams.  Hence,  this  court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Accused in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

Although 4 years passed after his arrest, the trial before the High Court 

has  not  been  commenced.  Expeditious  trial  is  an  integral  element  of  a 

fair trial.  

The Accused had committed the offence while he was on bail for a similar 

offence.  An  indictment  for  possession  of  Heroin  is  pending  against  the 

Accused under case No. HC 3763/19 in the High Court of Panadura. 

Pertaining  to  this  case  an  indictment  was  served  on  the  Accused  on 

22.09.2022 in the High Court of Homagama under case No.82/2022. Due 

to various reasons the trial was postponed and not commenced yet.   

A court can consider evidence in a bail inquiry. During a bail hearing, 

the  court  typically  evaluates  various  factors  to  determine  whether  a 

Suspect should be granted bail, such as the risk of flight, the likelihood 

of  reoffending,  and  the  safety  of  the  community.  The  court  may  also 

review  evidence  related  to  the  Suspect’s  criminal  history,  ties  to  the 

community, and the specifics of the current charges. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0466-2024 

Ultimately, the court’s role during a bail inquiry is to weigh the available 

evidence to decide if the defendant can be trusted to return for trial or if 

they pose a danger to public safety. 

In  this  case  the  Accused  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(d)  and  (b)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that this is not appropriate case 

to  consider  the  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the 

investigations  at  this  stage.  It  can  only  be  tested  at  the  trial  upon  the 

witnesses being cross examined and re-examined.  

 In  Ranil  Charuka  Kulatunga  v.  Attorney  General  CA  (PHC)  APN 

134/2015 the court held that: 

“The quantity of cocaine involved in this case is 62.847 grams, 

which is a commercial quantity. If Petitioner is convicted, the 

punishment  is  death  or  life  imprisonment.  Under  these 

circumstances, it is prudent to conclude the trial early while 

the Petitioner is kept in custody.” 

In this case the pure Heroin detected is 572.16 grams, which certainly a 

very  high  commercial  quantity.  Considering  the  seriousness  of  the 

sentence  prescribed  under  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance, there is a high risk of absconding. Further, the Accused has 

committed these offences while a similar case is pending before the High 

Court  of  Panadura  which  is  a  clear  testament  of  his  propensity  in 

committing drug related offences.   

Hence, I do not consider the delay little over 4 years in remand falls into 

the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 0466-2024 

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of Heroin detected, the charges framed against the Accused, the pending 

case and other and circumstances of the case, I consider this is not an 

appropriate case to sanction bail to the Accused at this stage. Hence, I 

refuse to release the Accused on bail. 

Hence, this Bail Application is dismissed. 

The Registrar of this Court is directed to this Bail Order to the High Court 

of  Homagama  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Narcotics  Bureau, 

Colombo-01. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

8 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
