IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMACRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

CA Writ Application 
No.: CA/writ/788/24 
Matale High Court Case No.: 
MT/HC 31/2024 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for  the 
mandates in the nature of a Writs of Certiorari, 
Mandamus and Prohibition under and in terms 
of  the  article  140  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Amil Patel alias Yogi Patel 
No.323, Sherwood DR, 
Yardley PA 19067. 
Presently at Clear Point Residencies 
Apt # 16B, 
14, Perera Mawatha, 
Kotugoda, 
Rajagiriya, 
Colombo, 
Sri Lanka 

Petitioner 

Vs 
1. 

2. 

Hon. Attorney General 
Attorney General’s Department 
Colombo 12 

1st Respondent 

Hon High Court Judge, 
High Court 
Matale 

2nd Respondent 

3.  Officer-in Charge 

Sports Crime Investigation Unit 
Sports Ministry, 
Sugathadasa Indoor Sports Complex 
Colombo 14 

3rd Respondent 

4. 

The Minister, 
The Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs, 
No.09, Philip Gunawardena Mawatha, 
Colombo 07 

4th Respondent 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 

The Minster 
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs,  
Foreign Employment and Tourism, 
No.696/4, Maradana Road, 
Colombo 10 

5th Respondent 

Before: 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

Damith Thotawatte, J. 

Counsel 

Neranjan Jayasinghe, with Mahesh Kalugampitiya, Randunu 
Heellage, and Imangsi Senarath for the Petitioner.  

Suharshi Herrath, DSG for the Respondents. 

supported 

05-03-2025 

Written submissions 
tendered on: 

18-03-2025 By the Petitioner 

Order Delivered on: 

02-04-2025 

Damith Thotawatte, J. 

The Petitioner was indicted in the High Court of Matale under indictment No MT/HC/31/2024 
for committing the offence of corruption in sports, under The Prevention of Offences Relating 
to Sports Act, No. 24 OF 2019. The Indictment had been served on the Petitioner on 14-05-
2024 and one of the bail conditions imposed on the Petitioner had been that he should not 
leave the country until the conclusion of the trial. On 09-08-2024 upon the Petitioner entering 
a plea of “not guilty” the trial has commenced with the prosecution leading the evidence of the 
1st witness. 

As the Petitioner (accused) is a United States citizen, several applications had been made to 
relax his bail conditions enabling him to visit his family. The High Court has refused to lift the 
relevant travel restrictions. There is no indication the Petitioner attempted to revise this order.  

It is the position of the Petitioner that the decision taken by the 1st Respondent to indict him 
under Act No. 24 of 2019 is arbitrary, unreasonable and ultra-vires.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Petitioner has filed this present Application seeking, inter alia, the following reliefs: 

c)  Grant  and  issue  Writ  of  Certiorari  to  quash  the  indictment  filed  in  case  H.C.  Matale 

MT/HC 31/2024 

d)  Grant and issue writ of Certiorari to quash the orders of the Learned High Court Judge 
of Matale (2nd Respondent) dated 22.10.2024 and 05.12.2024 refusing to lift the travel 
ban temporarily. 

e)  Grant and issue writ of Mandamus directing the 2nd Respondent to lift the travel ban. 
f)  Grant and issue an interim order lifting the travel ban imposed by the High Courts of 
Matale in case No. MT/HC 31/2024, until the final determination of this application. 

After filing this application, the Petitioner had left the country in violation of the bail conditions 
imposed by court and as such presently can be considered a fugitive. As such relief sought by 
prayer  d  e  &  f  is  now  redundant.  The  counsel  for  the  petitioner  informed  court  he  will  be 
pursuing only prayer c.  

prima  facie  there  are  three  threshold  issues  that  should  be  considered  regarding  this 
application. 

The Petitioner is challenging the indictment on the ground that he cannot be prosecuted for an 
offence under Act, No. 24 of 2019 as the sports event he was involved in does not fall in to the 
category of sports events envisaged by  the said  act and as such the  indictment is arbitrary, 
unreasonable and ultra-vires. 

It is the Petitioners contention that alleged conduct attributed to him cannot be considered an 
offence due to the fact the activity he was involved in at that time is not covered by Act, No. 24 
of 2019. The Petitioner was served with the indictment on 14-05-2024 and at least from that 
date he should have been aware of the above. This application has been submitted on 10-12-
2024 and the Petitioner has given no explanations for the for the nearly a seven-month delay 
in invoking the Jurisdiction of this court 

In Biso Menika Vs. Cyril de Alwis and Others1 it was observed that, “What is reasonable time 
and what will constitute delay will depend upon facts of each particular case”. Considering the 
facts and circumstances of this particular case it is my view that there is an unreasonable and 
unexplained delay Seeking redress and as such the Petitioner is guilty of laches.  

1 (1982) 1 Sri LR 368 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
Further a jurisdictional challenge  could have been taken up in the trial court itself. The trial 
Court  has  the  power  to  rule  regarding  such  issues.  In  spite  of  the  availability  of  a  relatively 
convenient  and  speedier  remedy  the  petitioner  has  opted  to  seek  judicial  review  via 
prerogative writs. 

Under Sri Lankan administrative law, the general rule is that a petitioner should pursue any 
alternative remedy provided before invoking the writ jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal. The 
basis for  the rule primarily lies in judicial precedent and the from  the wide discretion  given 
regarding issuance of writ granted by Article 140 of the constitution.  

Initially In Sri Lankan courts had taken a restrictive approach regarding this rule. In Obeysekera 
v. Albert and others2  The court emphasized that  certiorari is not a  right but a discretionary 
remedy, only available if reasonably available and equally appropriate other remedies are first 
exhausted. 

In Somasunderam Vanniasingham v. Forbes and Another3 The Supreme Court overruled the 
earlier Court of Appeal decision in Obeysekera v. Albert and similar cases, stating that they 
wrongly restricted judicial review. Rejecting this restrictive view The Supreme Court held: that 
there  is  no  rule  requiring  exhaustion  of  alternative  administrative  remedies  before  seeking 
judicial review, if those remedies are not satisfactory. 

It is clear that the  reason to overlooked  general  rule  is the fact that the available alternate 
remedies are inadequate or inefficient to achieve the required purpose. An alternate remedy 
even if provided by statute will not preclude a writ if that alternate remedy is not capable of 
curing the defect in question. 

In  “Somasunderam  Vanniasingham”  Supreme  Court  has  further  remarked  that  the  delay  in 
securing  an  effective  other  remedy  has  been  considered  unsatisfactory.  This  means  an 
alternative remedy that is not speedy, effective or adequate is ground for issuance of a writ of 
certiorari. 

In Virakesari Ltd. v. P. O. Fernando4. despite an appeal to the Commissioner of Labour being 
provided by law. The Supreme Court quashed the decision, recognizing that the officer’s order 
was illegal on its face. The principle appears to be “if there is an illegality, there is no question 
that the Court can exercise its powers of review.” 

The situations where relief may be granted despite the availability of alternative remedies does 
not appear to be exhaustive. The decision appears to be based on the adequacy of the alternate 
remedy  available  under  the  circumstances  to  effectively  achieve  the  relevant  purpose  or 
prevent an injustice. 

2 (1978–79) 2 Sri LR 220 
3 (1993) 2 Sri LR  362 
4 (1963) 66 NLR 145 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
In  the  instance  case  the  alternate  remedy  available  is  prima  facie  faster  and  effective  than 
seeking judicial review via prerogative writs. The Petitioner has not disclosed any grounds that 
would  demonstrate  any  shortcoming  of  the  alternate  remedy  other  than  relying  on  the 
Judgement of Gulam Hussain Ali Asgar Shabbir and Others Vs. LOLC Finance5. In the “Gulam” 
case the court has not rejected the submissions regarding an availability of alternate remedies 
but has decided to consider it at a later stage.  

In “Gulam” his Lordship Justice Rajakaruna has stated; “Having overruled the first preliminary 
objection, this Court needs to consider the other preliminary objection on the availability of an 
alternative remedy, only when assaying whether the Petitioner has made out an arguable case, 
based on prima facie questions of law which warrants this Court to take into consideration at 
the merit stage of the instant Application.” 

The  above  decision  does  not  indicate  that  availability  of  an  alternate  remedy  cannot  be 
considered at the threshold state. How the court would approach this issue depends upon the 
nature and the circumstances of each case. In the Instant case I see no impediment to consider 
this matter at the threshold stage.  

As the Petitioner had not satisfied the court regarding not availing themselves of the effective 
and  adequate  remedy  that  was  available,  the  petitioner  is  not  entitled  relief  sought  by  this 
application.  

In WTL Automobiles (Pvt) Ltd v. Commissioner General of Inland Revenue6 his Lordship Justice 
Laffar referring to a number of authorities has  stated:  “Furthermore, it is settled law that a 
party  seeking  prerogative  relief  should  come  to  Court  with  clean  hands.  The  expression  is 
derived from one of Equities maxims: ‘He who comes to Equity must come with clean hands.’ 
‘Clean hands’ is the legal principle that only a party that has done nothing wrong can come to 
a Court with a lawsuit against the other person. If the party bringing the suit has acted in an 
unfair, illegal, dishonest, or otherwise immoral way in regards to the subject matter at issue 
then  they  have  violated  an  equitable  principle  and  have  “unclean  hands.”  Someone  who 
violates equitable norms cannot then seek equitable relief or claim a defence based on the law 
of equity.” 

In the instant case the Petitioner after filing this application has fled the country deliberately 
violating the conditions upon, he was released on bail. As writ is a discretionary remedy the 
conduct  of  the  Petitioner  is  also  very  relevant.  The  Petitioners  action  indicate  that  whilst 
seeking relief from court he has taken steps or planned to evade consequential legal liabilities 
in  the  event  he  is  unsuccessful.  It  is  my  view  that  a  person  with  such  contempt  for  legal 
processes should not be entitled to seek prerogative remedies from this court. 

5 CA Writ 181/2024 
6 CA/WRT/0014/2020 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
 On above grounds I am of the view that the Petitioner has not satisfied the minimum threshold 
requirements  which  warrant  this  court  to  issue  formal  notice  of  this  application  to  the 
respondents 

Application is dismissed. 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
