CA Bail 0511-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Application No.                      Police Station, 

CA Bail 0511/2024 

Pallekelle. 

MC Teldeniya 

                   COMPLAINANT 

Case No. B 81/2024 

Vs. 

Ekanayake Mudiyanselage Chaminda 

Bandara 

(Presently in remand custody) 

SUSPECT       

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Niyangama Suduhakuru Gedera Indrani 

Karunasena 

No.396/4/B/1, Weliwala Road, 

Kotikawatta, Angoda. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                             
CA Bail 0511-2024 

 Vs. 

1.  Th Officer-in-Charge 

Police Station, 

Pallekelle. 

2.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENTS 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Hansani Ranasinghe for the Petitioner.  

Wishwa  Wijesooriya,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

04/04/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

26/05/2025. 

***************************** 

        ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the Wife of the Suspect named in the Magistrate Court 

of Teldeniya bearing case No. B 81/2024.  

2 | P a g e  

 
 
                  
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
 
CA Bail 0511-2024 

According to the B report submitted by the Pallekelle Police Station, on 

12.01.2024 while their officers were engaging in routine crime prevention 

duty, stopped a three-wheeler bearing No.200-4125 and searched. Some 

substance suspected to be Heroin was recovered from right side trouser 

pocket of the Suspect. The contraband is weighed about 48.140 grams. 

The Suspect was produced in the Magistrate Court of Teldeniya and facts 

were reported under Section 54A (b) and (d) of the Poisons, Opium and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.Upon 

a Court order the Suspect was placed under a detention order to facilitate 

the Pallekelle Police to conduct further investigation with regard to the 

detection. 

During  the  interrogation,  upon  a  statement  made  by  the  Suspect  the 

police  had  recovered  another  50  grams  of  Substance  suspected  to  be 

Heroin and 29.425 kilograms of Cannabis Saliva L from a garage situated 

in Kotikawatta.   

Upon  a  Court  order  the  total  contraband  had  been  sent  to  the 

Government Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst 

Report dated 28.03.2024, 20.64 grams of pure Heroin (Diacetylmorphine) 

had been detected in parcels sent for analysis.        

The  Petitioner  alleges  that  the  Suspect  was  taken  into  custody  by  the 

police  on  a  mere  conjecture  without  any  reasonable  suspicion.  The 

Petitioner  further  alleges  that  no  Heroin  or  any  other  contraband  had 

been detected from the Suspect.  

The Petitioner submit that the Suspect had been in remand for little over 

16 months. Indictment has not been filed in the High Court. 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  Non-existence of a prima-facie case against the Suspect. 

2.  Improbability of the version of the prosecution. 

3.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for little over 16 months. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0511-2024 

4.  The  is  a  father  of  two  children  and  the  sole  breadwinner  of  the 

family. The younger son of the Suspect did not have both legs since 

his birth. 

The State Counsel submits that the dossier of the investigation has been 

received by the Attorney General’s Department but indictment has not 

gone out yet.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 0511-2024 

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In this case, the pure quantity of Heroin detected in the production by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  20.64  grams.  Hence,  this  court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Suspect in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

No previous or pending case reported against the Suspect. 

The Counsel for the Petitioner urged this Court to consider that detaining 

a  Suspect  without  any  legal  action  for  an  extended  period  of  time 

amounts to a violation of his fundamental rights which can be considered 

as an exceptional ground. 

In Nasher v. Director of Public Prosecution [2020] VSCA 144 the court 

held that: 

“a  combination  of  delay,  onerous  custodial  conditions,  and  the 

relative weakness of the prosecution case may, when considered with 

all  relevant  circumstances,  compel  the  conclusion  that  exceptional 

circumstances have been established”. [Emphasis added] 

The Petitioner vehemently denies the allegation and the facts reported by 

the police. 

One of the grounds urged by the learned Counsel is that Heroin said to 

have  recovered  from  the  Suspect  was  an  introduction.  Further,  the 

Suspect never possessed any illegal substance.   

The son of the Suspect is a disabled person. He did not have his both legs 

since  his  birth.  As  such  he  is  completely  depend  on  his  parents.  At 

present he is 16 years of age of age and has been selected to represent 

Sri Lanka in the upcoming Asian Para Games (Rowing).  

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0511-2024 

A  letter  has  been  issued  by  the  Sri  Lanka  Para  Rowing  Association 

confirming his selection to represent in Rowing. As such he is asked to 

come  for  practices  at  Diyatha,  Battaramulla  Sri  Lanka  Army  Rowing 

premises.  As  the  Petitioner  is  the  sole  breadwinner  of  the  family  at 

present, she is unable to attend to her son’s requirements as she has two 

girls to look after. As such, the Counsel for the Petitioner submits to this 

Court to consider this as an exceptional circumstance to grant bail to the 

Suspect.       

The  learned  State  Counsel  submits  that  the  investigation  notes 

pertaining  to  this  case  has  been  received  by  the  Attorney  General  but 

indictment has not gone out yet. Hence, I consider the delay little over 16 

months  in  remand  falls  into  the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive 

delay considering the circumstances of this case. 

Offences  under  Section  54A(b)  and  54A(d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is no 

doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offence alone cannot form 

a ground to refuse bail. In considering these matters, the court must bear 

in mind the presumption of innocence. 

Further, bail should never be withheld as punishment. Granting of bail 

is  primarily  at  the  discretion  of  the  Courts.  The  discretion  should  be 

exercised  with  due care  and  caution  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 

circumstances of each case.    

Considering  all  these  factors  into  account,  especially  the  period  in 

remand, the circumstances of arrest and the other circumstances of the 

case, I consider this is an appropriate case to grant bail to the Suspect. 

Hence,  I  order  the  Suspect  be  granted  bail  with  following  strict 

conditions. 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.100,000/=.  

2.  To provide 02 sureties. They must sign a bond of two million each. 

The Petitioner should be the one of the sureties. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0511-2024 

3.  The Suspect and the sureties must reside in the address given until 

conclusion of his case. 

4.  Not to approach any prosecution witnesses directly or indirectly or 

to interfere with. 

5.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel document. The Controller of the Immigration and Emigration 

is informed of the travel ban on the Suspect. 

6.  To  report  to  the  Angoda  Police  Station  on  the  second  and  last 

Sunday of every month between 9am to 1pm. 

7.  Any breach of these conditions is likely to result in the cancellation 

of his bail. 

The  Bail  is  allowed  and  the  Learned  Magistrate  of  Teldeniya  is  hereby 

directed to enlarge the Suspect on bail on the above bail conditions. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  send  this  Bail  Order  to  the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Teldeniya,  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Station 

Pallekelle and Officer-in-Charge, Police Station, Angoda.  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
