IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

BAL-0344-24 

In the matter of an Application for Bail 

under  and  in  terms  of  Section  83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs  Ordinance  No.  17  of  1929  as 

amended  by  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 

41 of 2022. 

Wedarachchi Patabendige Bhathiya    

Sanath Kumara, 

No.136, Pannawasa Mawatha, 

Court of Appeal Case No. 

Medaketiya, Tangalle. 

CA/BAL/0344/2024 

 Suspect-Petitioner 

Magistrate Court of Colombo         Vs. 

Case No. B 82604/1/22 

1.  Officer-in-Charge, 

Police Narcotics Bureau, 

Colombo 01. 

 Complainant-Respondent 

2.  Hon. Attorney General, 

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo 12. 

    Respondent 

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0344-24 

BEFORE :   

P. KUMARARATNAM, J.  

K.M.G.H KULATUNGA, J. 

COUNSEL:   

Pradeep Perera for the Petitioner.  

Tharaka Kodagoda, SC for the Respondents. 

INQUIRY ON:  

13.02.2025  

DECIDED ON: 

11.03.2025 

K.M.G.H KULATUNGA, J. 

ORDER 

1. The  suspect-petitioner,  Wedarachchi  Patabendige  Bhathiya  Sanath 

Kumara has preferred this application for bail under Section 83(2) of the 

Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance. He had been arrested 

on  16.12.2022  whilst  at  his  home  at  Tangalle.  According  to  the  learned 

Counsel of the petitioner, Mr. Pradeep Perera, nothing had been recovered 

from  the  possession  of  this  suspect.  According  to  him,  on  14.12.2022  a 

fishing boat named ‘Bashi’ had been searched whilst at sea and 128.327kg 

of  Methamphetamine  along  with  106.474kg  of  Heroine  had  been  seized. 

Thereafter, this suspect-petitioner had been apprehended apparently due 

to information received and based on telephone communication between 

himself and the skipper of the said boat.  

2. Further, the learned State Counsel, Ms. Tharaka Kodagoda submitted that 

there  is  information  that  the  fishing  boat  ‘Bashi’  was  owned  by  this 

suspect-petitioner and had been sold to the skipper  few  days before the 

impugned search and detection. The learned State Counsel also submitted 

that the investigation is still in progress. The Hon. Attorney General has 

received the IB Extracts on 20.11.2023 and the matter is now registered 

under AG’s reference CR3/591/2023. The State Counsel submitted that 

the Attorney General has directed further investigations and one item is to 

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0344-24 

ascertain  the  nature,  reason  and  the  purpose  of  the  sale  of  this  fishing 

vessel two days before the apprehension.   

3. The  learned  Counsel  for  the  petitioner  relies  on  two  grounds  of 

exceptionality  namely,  medical  reasons  and  the  delay.  It  was  submitted 

that the suspect-petitioner has now been in remand for over two years and 

there is no recovery or connection to the narcotics detected and recovered 

in this investigation.  

4. No doubt, by virtue of provisions of Section 83(2) of the Poisons, Opium 

and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance,  the  law  decrees  that  the  persons 

accused of being in possession of 10 grammes or more of a dangerous drug 

will have to suffer incarceration until the conclusion or the determination 

of  the  trial.  The  legislature  has  thought  and  intended  so  however  as 

incarceration  is  a  serious  deprivation  of  the  living  and  liberty  of  such 

person  and  is  inconsistent  with  the  presumption  of  innocence.  In  those 

circumstances,  persons  responsible  for  the  incarceration  of  suspects  of 

accused are required to diligently and expeditiously take steps to conclude 

the legal process and trials in such instances. If there be any remissness, 

negligence or any conduct of a lackadaisical nature, the time elapsed due 

to such reasons will be considered and become excessive and oppressive 

in nature which will be an exceptional ground which entitles an accused 

for bail under Section 83(2). 

5. However, it is now settled law and this Court has consistently been of the 

view  that  if  there  be  a  delay  which  is  not  accounted  or  explained  which 

appears  to  be  due  to  the  remissness,  complacently  or  negligence  on  the 

part  of  the  respondents  holding  of  such  suspects  in  remand,  such 

circumstance may be considered as being exceptional for the purposes of 

granting bail.  

6. It  has  time  and  again  been  held  by  this  Court  that  when  the  statute 

mandates  the  holding  of  suspects  or  accused  in  remand  pending  trial, 

there  is  correspondingly  a  duty  and  an  obligation  upon  those  who  are 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0344-24 

responsible in denying the liberty and holding such person in remand or 

detention to diligently and consciously take steps to expeditiously conclude 

the  investigation  and  institute  criminal  action.  Preparation  of  the  IB 

Extracts  and  forwarding  it  to  the  Attorney  General  entails  such  an 

obligation.  

7. What is relevant in the present application is that this suspect was not on 

the  fishing  vessel  at  the  time  of  the  detection.  According  to  the  State 

Counsel, this suspect happens to be the previous owner who is alleged to 

have sold this vessel few days before to the skipper who was apprehended 

along  with  the  narcotics.  This  is  the  position  of  the  respondents.  The 

learned State Counsel vehemently objected and submitted that there was 

great suspicion as to why the vessel was sold a few days before and there 

were  phone  communications  between  the  skipper  (new  owner)  and  the 

suspect-petitioner prior to the said sale. Apart from this there is nothing 

tangible  or  incriminating,  unraveled  or  found  during  this  investigation. 

However, according to the petitioner he is the owner and had entered into 

an  agreement  with  the  skipper  to  engage  the  vessel  in  fishing  activities. 

(Vide document marked ‘Q’). 

8.  Almost one year after the receipt of the IB Extracts, the Attorney General 

has advised  the police  to conduct  further investigations to ascertain the 

real purpose of the purported sale/handing over agreement of the vessel 

and if it was a sham transaction. What is significant and relevant at this 

juncture  is  that  it  has  taken  one  year  to  send  out  the  letter  of  advice 

directing further investigations by letter dated 14.10.2024. When suspects 

are languishing in remand, further investigations and necessary actions to 

institute legal proceedings should be pursued consciously and diligently. 

What we observe in this instance is that it lacks the diligence so expected. 

To cap it all, it is further compounded by the total lack of any convincing 

or  tangible  evidence  to  connect  this  suspect-petitioner  to  the  narcotics 

detected.  There  may  be  serious  suspicion  or  suspicious  circumstances 

which is far from incriminating evidence required to prefer charges. After 

Page 4 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
BAL-0344-24 

two years of the arrest, there is only some blissful hope or expectation of 

finding  something  to  implicate.  This  is  totally  insufficient  to  justify  the 

continuous incarceration of such person. These circumstances to my mind 

constitute delay which is oppressive and excessive.  

9. Once  again  with  a  profound  sense  of  a  regret,  I  observed  that  the 

deprivation of the living and liberty of any person seem to be insignificant 

and of no relevance to those who are entrusted with the task of instituting 

legal action or determining this matter. We are satisfied that the exceptional 

circumstances have been made out which entitles the petitioner to obtain 

bail under Section 83(2). Accordingly, petitioner is granted bail subjected 

to the following conditions.  

1.  cash bail in a sum of Rs. 500,000.00;  

2.  to provide two sureties who should execute bonds to the value of 

Rs. 1,000,000.00 each and one of the sureties should be a close 

relative of the accused-petitioner; 

3.  Sureties  are  required  to  provide  certificates  from  the  Grama 

Sevaka from respective residential areas of such sureties; 

4.  to surrender the Passport or any travel document of the accused- 

petitioner, if he has any, to the Registrar of the Magistrates’ Court 

of Colombo;  

5.  to report to the Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station, Tangalle on 

last Sunday of the month before 12 noon.  

6.  further, a travel ban is imposed until the final determination of this 

matter  and  the  Registrar  is  directed  to  inform  the  Controller  of 

Immigration and Emigration of this order for necessary action; and  

10. This application is accordingly allowed and the Registrar of this Court is 

directed to transmit a copy of this order to the Registrar of the Magistrates’ 

Court of Colombo.  

Page 5 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. Kumararatnam, J. 

I agree. 

BAL-0344-24 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
