IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

CA (WRIT) Application: CA/WRIT/565/23 

In the matter of an application under and in 
terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the 
Socialist Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka for a 
Mandate in the nature of writs of Mandamus 
and/or prohibition and/or procedendo and/or 
certiorari 

Weerawarna Kurukulusuriya Busabadhuge 
Antony Paul Fernando 
No. 6 Post, 
Idigolla, Bowatta, 
Balangoda. 

Petitioner 

Vs 
1.  Officer in Charge 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Crimes Investigation Unit 
Police Station 
Balangoda. 

The Officer in Charge 
Special Investigation Unit 
Colombo - 01. 

Hon. High Court Judge of Rathnapura 
High Court Complex of Rathnapura, 
Rathnapura. 

The Hon. Attorney General 
Attorney General's Department 
Colombo 12 

Peli Muhandiram Appuhamilage Chandana 
Nishantha alias Peli Muhandiram 
Appuhamilage Chamil Nishantha 
No. 212/4 Salalihina Mawatha, Mulleriyawa 
North, 
Angoda. 

Hondurugoda Gamaga Ravindra Leelasena 
No. 48, 
Ganga Asabada Para, Kalanimulla, 
Angoda. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 

8. 

9. 

 Senarath Mohottilage Nishantha Perera 
alias Senarath Mohottilage Krishantha 
Perera 
No. 70/18, 
Bodhiya Patumaga, Mulleriyawa North, 
Angoda. 

Sitharam Antony 
Digananda, Palawela, 
Rathnapura. 

Ranasinghe Arachchilage Sajith Kumara 
No. 77/O 
Seneviratne Mawatha, Magammana, 
Minuwangoda. 

10.  Athukoralalage Karunanayake alias Kumara 

Bowatta, Rajawaka, 
Balangoda. 

Respondents 

Before: 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

Damith Thotawatte, J. 

Counsel 

Hafeel Farisz with Shannon Thilakaratne instructed by Sanjeewa 
Kodithuwakku for the Petitioner.  
Dushantha Epitawela instructed by Iroshini Pathirana for the 10th 
Respondent. 
Shanit Kularatna , PC ASG for the Respondents. 

Supported 

25-02-2025 and 17-03-2025 

Order Delivered on: 

20-05-2025 

D. Thotawatte, J. 

On the 24th of April 2014, a gang of robbers claiming to be Police Officers entered the Petitioner's 
residence and robbed him of money and jewellery. Acting on the complaint made  on the same 
day by the Petitioner, the Officer in Charge of the Crimes Investigation Unit of the Balangoda Police 
Station, had begun investigations and reported the matter to the Learned Magistrate of Balangoda 
under case No. B 281/2014   

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Petitioner  being  dissatisfied  with  the  manner  in  which  the  investigations  were  being 
conducted, had complained to the Inspector General of Police requesting him to assign competent 
investigators to investigate the said crime. 

The Petitioner states in his petition that thereafter the Special Investigations Unit of the Sri Lanka 
Police  was  assigned  to  take  over  the  investigation  and/or  assist  the  1st  Respondent  in  his 
investigations. As a result of these investigations, persons named in this application as 5th, 6th, 7th, 
and 8th Respondents had been taken into custody and produced as suspects.  In the indictment 
that was subsequently filed in the High Court of Ratnapura (as HCR 53/2021), by the Hon. Attorney 
General (4th Respondent), with regards to the robbery at the Petitioner’s  residence, the above 
persons had been named as 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Accused. 

However, two other persons namely Ranasinghe Arachchilage Sajith Kumara and Athukoralalage 
Karunanayake  Alias  Kumara  (respectively  the  9th  and  the  10th  Respondents  of  the  instant 
application) produced before the Learned Magistrate as suspects in  the robbery  case, had not 
been named as accused in the Indictment. 

The Petitioner states that by the report dated 9th of October 2014, filed by the 1st Respondent in 
the Magistrate Court 1st Respondent had informed the court of the recovery of a gold chain and a 
gold bangle under the provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence ordinance and also the recovery of 
Gem stones stolen from the Petitioner from the 9th Respondent. 

The  9th  Respondent  on  advice  of  the  4th  Respondent,  had  been  charged  separately  in  the 
Magistrates  Court  of  Minuwangoda  for  retention  of  stolen  property  that  was  identified  as 
belonging to the Petitioner.  

The 10th Respondent has been discharged from the proceedings by the 4th Respondent on the 
grounds that there is insufficient evidence to charge them. 

The Petitioner states that his main and only grievance is that the Hon. Attorney General had failed 
to indict some of the persons who committed the crime despite there being clear, unambiguous, 
and indisputable evidence against them. 

The  Petitioner  further  submits  that  the  indictment  is  not  properly  formulated  as  it  does  not 
mention  the  productions  contained  in  the  report  filed  by  the  investigating  officers  in  the 
Magistrate court as having been recovered in relation to the crime. 

The Petitioner claims that the 4th Respondent is bound in law to name 9th and 10th Respondents 
as accused in the Indictment bearing No HCR 53/2021 and discharging them from the main case 
added insult to injury on the Petitioner and every law-abiding citizen of the country. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According  to  the  journal  entries  of  the  High  Court  of  Ratnapura  case  No.  HCR  53/2021,  the 
Indictments had been served on the accused on 26-11-2021, and eventually the trial had been 
fixed for 28-08-2023.  Although the journal entries of 28-08-2023 had not been annexed to the 
petition,  the  Petitioner  claims  that  his  counsel  unsuccessfully  attempted  to  prevent  the  trial 
commencing  on  the  grounds  that  a  Writ  Application  had  been  filed  in  the  court  of  appeal. 
However,the  Judge  of  the  High  Court  had  commenced  the  trial,  and  the  prosecution  had 
concluded the examination in chief of the Petitioner.  

The Petitioner has filed this present Application on the 2nd October 2023 seeking, inter alia, the 
following substantive reliefs: 

c)  Issue  a  Writ  of  Mandamus  directing  the  4th  Respondent  to  name  the  9th  and  10th 

Respondents as the 5th and 6th Accused respectively in Case No. HCR 53/2021. 

 Or in the alternative 

d)  Issue a Writ of Certiorari quashing the indictment in Case No. HCR 53/2021, and issue 
a Writ of Mandamus directing the 4th Respondent to file a fresh indictment naming 
the 9th and 10th Respondents as Accused in relation to the offence committed against 
the Petitioner. 

e)  Issue a Writ of Certiorari quashing  the decision not to indict the 9th Respondent in 

f) 

Case No. HCR 53/2021. 
Issue a Writ of Certiorari quashing the decision of the 4th Respondent as contained in 
document marked X6B (Discharge Order). 

g)  Issue an Interim Order staying the continuation of the trial in Case No. HCR 53/2021 

until the final hearing and determination of this Application. 

Or in the alternative 

h)  Issue an  Interim Order naming the 9th Respondent as an Accused in Case No. HCR 

53/2021. 

In  order  to  establish  that  the  4th  Respondent  had  not  exercised  his  prosecutorial  discretion 
correctly and lawfully, the Petitioner has submitted the following facts reported to the Magistrate 
court by the 1st Respondent; 

a)  1st  Respondent  by  his  report  dated  11th  of  November  2014,  had  informed  the  Learned 

Magistrate that the said 9th Respondent was the main suspect of the crime. 

b)  The  said  9th  Respondent  had  constant  communication  with  the  robbers  who  had 

committed the act. 

c)  A suspect had confessed that the said 9th Respondent was in the vicinity and planned the 

entire crime. 

4 

 
 
 
 
d)  In the report filed on the 16th of October 2014, the 1st Respondent had reported to court 
that the 10th Respondent was also involved in the crime and that the gang of robbers had 
in fact gathered at his residence prior to the commission of the crime. 

The petitioner submits the following facts as reasons that may have prevented the 4th Respondent 
from including the 9th and the 10th Respondents as Accused in the Indictment. 

The Information Book, the extracts sent by the 1st Respondent to the Hon. Attorney General, for 
consideration were incomplete as: 

a)  No statements and/or notes of the officers of the 2nd Respondent Special Investigation Unit 

pursuant to the 15th of September 2014 have been included. 

b)  No sketches and/or other crime scene investigation notes have been included. 

c)  A proper list of productions (which are material and a part of the High Court Indictment), 

recovered during the investigation, has not been included. 

d)  The phone record details which were obtained as a part of the investigations and were 

prima facie evidence of the involvement of the 9th and 10th Respondents of the crime have 

not been included. 

The Attorney General's prosecutorial discretion is very wide, it can extend up to not presenting 
evidence  with  a  resultant  acquittal  of  the  accused.1  However,  this  power  is  not  absolute  or 
unfettered2. It is a discretion held in trust for the public and must be exercised according to law, 
fairly  and  in  the  public  interest,  not  arbitrarily  and  is  subject  to  judicial  review  for  illegality, 
irrationality and procedural impropriety3. Our courts have consistently held judicial review would 
occur only if the Attorney-General’s discretion was exercised in bad faith, with an ulterior motive, 
or  based  on  subjective,  arbitrary  satisfaction  rather  than  objective  facts4.  It  is  clear  that  the 
Attorney-General’s  decision  to  file  or  not  to  file  an  indictment  must  be  exercised  based  on 
objective facts and available evidence. Judicial review of prosecutorial discretion can be invoked 
if: 

  Malafides (bad faith) is alleged and properly pleaded  
 

Irrationality, unreasonableness, or arbitrariness in decision-making is demonstrated. 

1 The Attorney-General v. K. Sivapragasam et al. (60 NLR 468) 

2 Victor Ivon v. Sarath N. Silva, Attorney-General and Another (1998) 1 Sri L.R. 340 

3Thennakoon Mudiyanselage Janaka Bandara Thennakoon Vs. Hon. Attorney General and others CA WRIT 335-2016  

4 Kaluhath Ananda Sarath de Abrew v. Chanaka Iddamalgoda et al. SC FR NO. 424-2015 

5 

 
 
 
 
                                                             
 
 
 
  Violation  of  fundamental  rights  is  alleged  (e.g.,  unequal  treatment,  discrimination, 

violation of fair trial rights)  

  Failure  to  take  into  account  relevant  considerations,  or  taking  into  account  irrelevant 

considerations. 

  Prosecution initiated for an improper purpose or abuse of process. 
  When it is clear that the decision to file or not to file the indictment had not been exercised 

based on objective facts and evidence available. 

The Learned Additional Solicitor General who appeared for the 1st to 4th Respondents informed 
the court that the  4th Respondent in exercising his prosecutorial discretion, considers only  the 
admissible  evidence  available  in  the  form  of  testimony  of  the  witnesses,  notes  of  the  police 
officers, material collected connected to the offence, and reports of experts. Investigation officer’s 
reports to the Learned Magistrate during investigation are not evidence and only serve to keep 
the Learned Magistrate informed of the progress of the investigation.  I agree with this submission  

It was submitted on behalf of the Petitioner that there are two statements that implicate the 9th 
Respondent in the robbery. The Learned Additional Solicitor General responded to this by stating 
that the statement of G. P. Amarathunge appearing at page 1203 of the annexes to the petition 
was recorded when G. P. Amarathunge was considered a suspect. Considering the fact that G. P. 
Amarathunge was remanded regarding this matter, there are no reasonable grounds to expect 
that he will be disposed to aiding the prosecution. Further, even if G. P. Amarathunges’ statement 
is considered at its highest, it is unclear regarding the participation of the 9th Respondent in the 
robbery. The second statement, which the petitioner states, that implicates the 9th Respondent is 
the statement of another accused, and as such cannot be legally used against the 9th Respondent.   

The  Learned  Additional  Solicitor  General  further  explained  that  although  the  stolen  items  that 
were recovered could be connected to the 9th Respondent, there was no admissible evidence to 
connect  him  to  the  robbery,  and  as  such,  he  was  charged  separately  for  retention  of  stolen 
property. 

The  Learned  Additional  Solicitor  General  categorically  denied  that  any  telephone  conversation 
details were submitted to the 4th Respondent and also stated that the entire investigation file has 
been submitted to the 4th Respondent. 

The Learned Additional Solicitor General admitted, by an oversight,  some productions had not 
been included in the production list of the Indictment, but that issue has been rectified at present. 

In Nadun Chinthaka Wickramaratne v. Hon. Attorney General5 his Lordship Sobitha Rajakaruna has 
held that the Attorney General’s prosecutorial discretion to indict, based on available evidence, 
must not be interfered with unless exercised in bad faith, mala fide, or ultra vires. 

5 CA WRIT 523-2024 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
The Petitioner in his petition had stated nothing that would amount  to allegations of bad faith, 
mala fide, or that the 4th Respondent had acted ultra vires. The Petitioner himself had surmised 
that  the  reason  for  the  4th  Respondent  not  including  the  9th  and  the  10th  Respondents  in  the 
indictment is a result of the 4th Respondent not being provided with complete facts.  

The Petitioner has failed to satisfy  the court as to the existence of any material relevant to the 
offense that had been withheld from the 4th Respondent or that the 4th Respondent has neglected 
to consider any material submitted to him.  

The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Attorney General’s decision to exclude the 9th and 
10th Respondents was made arbitrarily, capriciously, or in bad faith. The material before the Court 
do not reveal any breach of legal duty by the Attorney General in evaluating the sufficiency of 
evidence. 

After considering the contents of the petition and the submissions of all parties, I am of the view that 
the Petitioner has failed to establish a prima facie case which warrants this Court to issue formal 
notice of the instant Application on the Respondents. Therefore, I proceed to refuse the instant 
Application 

Dhammika Ganepola, J. 

I agree     

     Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
