IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  under  and  in 
terms  of  Section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act  No  2 
of  1978  (as  amended)  for  transfer  of  Panadura 
Magistrates Court Case B776/23. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 
CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Ronald Michael Stanley, 
Permanently Residing at  
4 Natalie Court Cranbourne Victoria 3977 
Australia 

Temporarily Residing at 
49 Lionel Edirisinghe Mw 
Colombo 5 

Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  OIC, 

Hirana Police,  
Hirana. 

2.  Honourable Attorney General,  

Attorney General’s Department,  
Colombo -12.   

Respondents 

Before 

:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).  

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Counsel 

: 

Petitioner is appearing in person.  
Wasantha Perera, DSG for the Respondents.    

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supported on 

:      11.03.2025                   

Written Submissions  
of the Petitioner  
tendered on  

Written Submissions  
of the Respondents  
tendered on  

: 

Not tendered.  

: 

Not tendered. 

Decided on   

:         09.05.2025 

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

This is an application made to this Court under and in terms of section 46 of 

the Judicature Act (as amended) (hereinafter called and referred to as ‘the Act’) 

by the Petitioner appearing in person for the transfer of a case pending in the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  bearing  No.  B776/23(hereinafter  called  and 

referred  to  as  the  ‘criminal  case’),  where  the  Petitioner  is  the  virtual 

complainant, to any other appropriate Court that this Court shall deem fit.  

When this matter came on before us on 11.03.2025 for support for notice of the 

instant  application  for  transfer,  the  Petitioner  submitted  to  Court  that  matter 

would of consent, be disposed of by way of written submissions. It was further 

submitted to Court by the Petitioner that he would however, rely on the petition 

already, submitted to Court in support of the same and therefore not willing to 

tender  written  submissions  in  support  thereof,  whereas,  learned  DSG 

appearing  for  the  Respondents  moved  to  file  synopsis  in  this  regard  but,  not 

filed in Court. Hence, we are proceeding to hear and determine the application 

of the Petitioner for notice of the instant application for transfer on the merits 

on the strength of the material available on the record. 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Petitioner  in  his  petition  and  affidavit,  had  averred  several  facts  and 

circumstances which according to him warrant a transfer of the criminal case 

pending  before  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  where  he  is  the  virtual 

complainant.  

According to the facts and circumstances averred in the petition and affidavit, 

Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  who  wielded  connections  to  the  political  hierarchy  in  the 

area and the local police, Ms. Mangalika-wife of Mr. Senaka Kumara and their 

associates  had  caused  acts  of  intimidation  and  harassment  on  the  Petitioner 

who  holds  a  dual  citizenship  of  Sri  Lanka  and  Australia  and  who  in  the  year 

2000,  bought  an  island  named,  Kokduwa  located  in  the  Bolgoda  Lake, 

Panadura  with  intention  of  building  the  first  island  golf  course  in  Asia  in 

collaboration  with,  and  incorporating  substantial  foreign  investment  and 

partnership,  Ms.  Cleo  Muller  who  was  the  Petitioner’s  business  partner  and 

who had purchased Tuduwe Waththa from one Mr. Perera as being access road 

to the said island named Kokduwa in the year 2009, and the Petitioner’s staff 

as  a  direct  result  of  refusal  by  the  Petitioner  and  Ms.  Muller  to  succumb  to 

extortion  of  Rs.  2,000,000/-  demanded  by  Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  for  a  peaceful 

passage to the proposed project land; that since then, there had been constant 

conflicts  between  the  Petitioner,  Ms.  Muller  on  the  one  hand  and  Mr.  Senaka 

Kumara  and  his  wife  Ms.  Mangalika  and  their  associates  on  the  other,  as  a 

result  of  which  a  significant  number  of  complaints  and  counter  complaints  

had  been  lodged  to  Panadura  and  Hirana  Police  stations,  by  both  the 

Petitioner, Ms. Muller and Mr. Senaka Kumara and his wife Ms. Mangalika as a 

result  of  which  a    number  of  cases  had  been  filed  before  Magistrate  Court  of 

Panadura,  by  Police  against  the  Petitioner  and  Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  as  well 

which are still, pending in Court; that the criminal case in respect of which the 

instant application for transfer from Magistrate Court of Panadura to any other 

appropriate  Court  had  been  now,    made  to  this  Court  by  the  Petitioner  in  the 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 3 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
instant application for transfer, was filed by Hirana Police on a complaint made 

to therein by the Petitioner. 

In those circumstances, the Petitioner specifically, states in paragraphs 37 and 

48  of  his  petition  that  considering  the  unlawful  malicious  actions  of  Mr. 

Fernando, his political connections in Panadura, the death threats against him 

and  his  employees,  the  narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the 

officers  concerned  of  the  Panadura/Hirana  Police,  the  intense  pain  and 

suffering  that  he  had  been  put  through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life  in  view  of 

his inability to attend to his mother’s funeral and also his inability to get back 

to  Australia  due  to  impound  of  his  passport  by  Court,  he  truly,  believes  that 

there is a risk to his life due to the criminal case being heard any further by the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby,  warranting  transfer  of  the  same 

therefrom to any other appropriate Court for early disposal of the same.    

It  is  in  this  backdrop  of  the  instant  application,  I  would  now,  propose  to 

examine the provisions of law governing an application of this kind.  

It is Section 46(1) of the Act which lays down the grounds of transfer of a case 

from one Court to another and it enacts thus;  

“46. (1) Whenever it appears to the Court of Appeal  

(a)  that  a  fair  and  impartial  trial  cannot  be  had  in  any  particular 

court or place; or  

(b)  that  some  questions  of  law  of  unusual  difficulties  are  likely  to 

arise; or  

(c) that a view of the place in or near which any offence is alleged 

to  have  been  committed  may  be  required  for  the  satisfactory 

inquiry into or trial of the same ; or 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 4 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) that it is so expedient on any other ground,  

the  court  may  order  upon  such  terms  as  to  the  payment  of  costs  or 

otherwise  as  the  said  Court  thinks  fit,  for  the  transfer  of  any  action, 

prosecution, proceeding or matter pending before any court to any other 

court,  and  accordingly  in  every  such  case,  the  court  to  which  any  such 

action,  prosecution,  proceeding  or  matter  is  so  transferred  shall, 

notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  or  any  other  law,  take 

cognizance  of  and  have  the  power  and  jurisdiction  to  hear,  try  and 

determine  such  action,  prosecution,  proceeding  or  matter,  as  fully  and 

effectually  to  all  intents  and  purposes  as  if  such  Court  had  an  original 

power and jurisdiction.”  

Upon a careful reading of the averments in the petition of the Petitioner in its 

totality,  it  becomes  manifestly  clear  that,  the  Petitioner  does  not  in  any 

manner, state therein under which limb of Section 46(1) of the Act, namely; (a), 

(b), (c) or (d) he makes the instant application for transfer of the criminal case 

from Panadura Magistrate Court to any other appropriate Court.  

It is in this context, I would think it necessary and expedient at this juncture to 

precisely,  ascertain  in  the  first  instance  from  the  facts  and  circumstances  

averred  in  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner,  under  which  limb  of  Section  46(1)  of 

the Act namely; (a), (b), (c) or (d), the Petitioner seeks transfer of the aforesaid 

criminal case. 

Upon  a  careful  reading  of  the  averments  in  the  petition  in  its  entirety,  it 

becomes manifestly, clear that as a basis of his application  for transfer under 

section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  it  was  not  in  any  manner,  alleged  therein  by  the 

Petitioner  that  (a)  a  fair  and  impartial  trial  cannot  be  had  in  the  Magistrate 

Court of Panadura; or, that (b) some questions of law of unusual difficulties are 

likely to arise before the Magistrate Court of Panadura; or, that (c) a view of the 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 5 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
place  in  or  near  which  any  offence  is  alleged  to  have  been  committed  may  be 

required for the satisfactory inquiry into or trial of the same; 

However, as can be deducible from the averments in paragraphs 37 and 48 of 

his  petition  in  particular,  the  pivotal  basis  of  the  instant  application  for 

transfer  of  the  aforesaid  criminal  case  being  “a  risk  to  his  life  due  to 

unlawful,  malicious  actions  of  Mr.  Senaka  Fernando,  his  political 

connections  in  Panadura,  the  death  threats  against  him  and  his 

employees,  the  narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the 

officers  concerned  of  the  Panadura/Hirana  Police,  the  intense  pain  and 

suffering  he  had  been  put  through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life”  in  view  of 

the  facts  and  circumstances  as  more  fully  elaborated  in  his  petition  by  the 

Petitioner. [Emphasis is mine] 

In  view  of  the  matters  specifically,  averred  in  paragraphs  37  and  48  of  the 

petition  as  enumerated  above,  the  instant  application  for  the  transfer  of  the 

criminal case clearly, appears to me to be one falling under limb (d) of section 

46(1)  of  the  Act,  namely;  that  it  is  so  expedient  on  any  other  ground. 

[Emphasis is mine]  

The  pivotal  question  that  would  next,  arise  before  us  is;  On  whom  does  the 

burden of proof lay in an application of this kind and the scope and or the 

nature of it? 

It  was 

inter-alia,  held  by 

this  Court 

in  Sivasubramaniam  Vs. 

Sivasubramaniam  [1980]  2  SLR  58,  at  Page  64,  that  “A  party  to  an  action 

who seeks a transfer of a pending action from the Court in which it is pending 

to  another  Court  must  adduce  ‘sufficient  grounds’  to  satisfy  us  that  it  is 

expedient  to  make  an  order  for  its  transfer.  ‘Expedient”  in  this  context,  in  my 

view, means fit or proper. A transfer would not be ordered on light grounds.” 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 6 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
It was inter-alia, held by this Court in Abdul Hasheeb vs. Mendis Perera and 

Others  [1991]  1  SLR  243  at  pages  257  and  258  that,  “.......the  expression 

‘expedient’  in  the  context  means,  advisable  in  the  interests  of  the  justice 

indeed,  the  purpose  of  conferring  the  power  of  transfer  as  provided  for  in 

section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act,  is  to  ensure  the  due  administration  of 

justice.”.   

It  was  inter-alia,  held  by  this  Court  in  Karunaratne  Vs.  Simon  Singho  and 

Others [2011] 2 SLR 22, at page 25 that “…..expedient would mean advisable 

in the interest of justice”.  

In  order  to  succeed  in  his  application  for  transfer  of  the  criminal  case,  the 

Petitioner is bound to discharge the burden of proof so rested upon him. Now 

the pivotal question is whether the Petitioner was successful in discharging the 

same.   

It may now, be examined.  

In  view  of  the  above,  in  order  to  succeed  in  his  application  for  transfer  of  the 

said  case  from  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other  appropriate  Court 

under  Section  46  of  the  Act,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the  Petitioner  to  establish 

the pivotal ground adverted to by him in paragraphs 37 and 48 of his petition 

in  that,  the  Petitioner  is  bound  to  prove  to  the  satisfaction  of  this  Court  that 

the facts and circumstances so alleged thereby, namely; that “Considering the 

unlawful  malicious  actions  of  Mr.  Fernando,  his  political  connections  in 

Panadura,  the  death  threats  against  him  and  his  employees,  the 

narcissistic, psychopathic, predatory behavior of the officers concerned of 

the Panadura Police, the intense pain and suffering that he had been put 

through wasting 15 years of his life he truly, believes that there is a risk 

to  his  life  due  to  the  criminal  case  being  heard  any  further  by  the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby,  warranting  transfer  of  the  same 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 7 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
therefrom to any other appropriate Court for early disposal of the same”, 

do  really,  exist,  warranting  this  Court  to  exercise  its  discretionary  powers 

vested  in  it  by  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  in  granting  the  instant  application  for 

transfer  of  the  criminal  case  from  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other 

appropriate  Court  as  urged  by  the  Petitioner  in  prayer  (c)  of  his  petition. 

[Emphasis is mine] 

In  support  of  the  averments  embodied  in  the  petition,  the  Petitioner,  has 

annexed to his petition a number of documents marked as ‘X’ and “A1 to A4”.  

Document annexed to the petition marked ‘X’ is a copy of the “B” report  filed 

in the Magistrate Court of Panadura by the officer in charge of Police Station-

Hirana  pertaining  to  the  criminal  case-the  subject  matter  of  the  instant 

application for transfer.  

However,  upon  a  careful  perusal  of  the  B  report  (X),  it  clearly  appears,  that 

Police do not state therein that the Petitioner had in his complaint made to the 

Police,  ever  alleged  that,  in  view  of  the  unlawful  malicious  actions  of  Mr. 

Fernando, his political connections in Panadura, the death threats against 

him and his employees, the narcissistic, psychopathic, predatory behavior 

of  the  officers  concerned  of  the  Panadura  Police,  the  intense  pain  and 

suffering  that  he  had  been  put  through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life,  he 

truly,  believes  that  there  is  a  risk  to  his  life  if  the  criminal  case  is  to  be 

heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  as  now,  alleged  by 

the  Petitioner  in  the  averments  in  the  paragraphs  37  and  48  of  the  petition 

which  would  in  my  opinion,  totally,  militate  against  his  assertion  so  made  by 

him  therein,  namely;  paragraphs  37  and  48  of  his  petition  as  enumerated 

above  as  being  the  sole  basis  urged  by  him  in  the  instant  application  for 

transfer  of  the  criminal  case  from  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any 

other appropriate Court for; nowhere had it been averred in his petition by the 

Petitioner  that,  he  had  ever,  adverted  to  a  position  as  such  before  the  police 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 8 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
and/or  learned  Magistrate  of  Panadura  and/or  any  other  competent  forum  at 

any  stage  of  the  criminal  case  from  its  very  inception  to  the  stage  of  making 

this application before this Court for transfer of the same under section 46(1) of 

the  Act  that  there  would  be  a  risk  to  his  life  if,  the  criminal  case  is  to  be  

heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby, 

warranting transfer of the same therefrom to any other appropriate Court 

for early disposal of the same for the reasons stated in the averments in the 

paragraphs  37  and  48  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner  as  enumerated  above, 

instead the Petitioner himself had opted and elected to remain silent until the 

stage  of  making  this  application  before  this  Court  for  transfer  of  the  same 

under section 46(1) of the Act at the later stage of the criminal case. [Emphasis 

is mine] 

I would therefore, hold that, the instant application for transfer of the criminal 

case  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  cannot  sustain  both  in  fact  and  law  and 

therefore, not entitled to succeed both in fact and law, on this ground alone.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  criminal 

case under section 46(1) of the Act bears no merit and therefore, it ought to be 

dismissed on this ground alone.  

Moreover,  upon  a  careful  scrutiny  of  documents  annexed  to  his  petition 

marked  as  ‘A1’,  ‘A2’,  ‘A3’  and  ‘A4’  in  its  totality,  it  clearly,  and  manifestly, 

shows  that  no  complaint  to  the  effect  that,  “Considering  the  unlawful 

malicious actions of Mr. Fernando, his political connections in Panadura, 

the  death  threats  against  him  and  his  employees,  the  narcissistic, 

psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the  officers  concerned  of  the 

Panadura  Police,  the  intense  pain  and  suffering  that  he  had  been  put 

through wasting 15 years of his life he truly, believes that there is a risk 

to  his  life  due  to  the  criminal  case  being  heard  any  further  by  the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby,  warranting  transfer  of  the  same 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
therefrom to any other appropriate Court for early disposal of the same”, 

being  lodged  by  the  petitioner  to  the  police  and/or  learned  Magistrate  of 

Panadura and/or any other competent forum at any stage of the criminal case 

from its very inception to the stage of making this application before this Court 

for  transfer  of  the  same  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  as  alleged  in  the 

averments  embodied  in  the  paragraphs  37  and  48  of  the  petition  of  the 

Petitioner which would in my opinion, further, militate against his assertion so 

made  therein  as  being  the  sole  basis  urged  by  the  Petitioner  in  the  instant 

application  for  transfer  of  the  criminal  case  from  the  Magistrate  Court  of 

Panadura to any other appropriate Court for; nowhere had it been averred in 

his petition by the Petitioner that, he had ever, adverted to a position as 

such before the police and/or learned Magistrate of Panadura and/or any 

other  competent  forum  at  any  stage  of  the  criminal  case  from  its  very 

inception to the stage of making this application before this Court for transfer 

of the same under section 46(1) of the Act that “there is a risk to his life due 

to  the  criminal  case  being  heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of 

Panadura thereby, warranting transfer of the same therefrom to any other 

appropriate  Court  for  early  disposal  of  the  same”  for  the  reasons  stated  in 

the  averments  embodied  in  the  paragraphs  37  and  48  of  the  petition  of  the 

Petitioner  as  enumerated  above,  instead  the  Petitioner  himself  had  opted  and 

elected  to  remain  silent  from  its  very  inception  until  the  stage  of  making  this 

application before this Court for transfer of the same under section 46(1) of the 

Act at the later stage of the criminal case.[Emphasis is mine] 

In  view  of  the  above,  It  would  clearly,  appear  to  me  that  except  for  the  mere 

assertion so made by the Petitioner in the petition that, his life would be at risk 

if  the  criminal  case  is  to  be  heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of 

Panadura  in  view  of  the  facts  and  circumstances  so  averred  by  him  in  his 

petition as enumerated above as being the apparent ground for his application 

for  transfer  of  the  criminal  case,  the  Petitioner  had  not  through  cogent, 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
convincing and compelling evidence, made out a strong case for transfer of the 

criminal  case.  Hence,  the  said  assertion  of  the  Petitioner  remains  a  mere 

assertion  unproven  and  unsubtantiated  by  cogent,  convincing  and  compelling 

evidence.   

I would therefore, hold that, the instant application for transfer of the criminal 

case  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  cannot  sustain  both  in  fact  and  law  and 

therefore, not entitled to succeed both in fact and law on this ground too.  

Besides, even, if, it is to be assumed for the sake of the argument for a moment 

that,  the  facts  and  circumstances  alleged  by  the  Petitioner  in  paragraphs  37 

and  48  of  his  petition  do  really,  exist,  the  Petitioner  would  in  such 

circumstances,  be  entitled  to  the  protection  afforded  to  him  by  “Assistance  to 

and  Protection  of  Victims  of  Crime  and  Witnesses  Act  No.  10.  of  2023”  upon 

proof of the eligibility criteria laid down therein, and therefore, the Petitioner is 

not without a remedy.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  criminal 

case under section 46(1) of the Act bears no merit and therefore, it ought to be 

dismissed on this ground too.  

In  view  of  all  the  above  circumstances,  I  would  hold  that  the  Petitioner  has 

failed  to  establish  to  the  satisfaction  of  this  Court  such 

facts  and 

circumstances as urged by him in paragraphs 37 and 48 of his petition as the 

basis  for  his  application  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  for  transfer  of  the 

criminal case from the Magistrate Court of Panadura to any appropriate Court.  

In the result, the assertion of the Petitioner that there could be a risk to his life, 

clearly, appears to me to be only a mere assertion, having not being proved by 

compelling, credible and strong evidence satisfactory to this Court.  

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
On a careful consideration of all the relevant material placed before us, I would 

hold  that  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  adduce  sufficient  grounds  to  satisfy  us 

that  it  would  be  expedient  to  make  order  for  the  transfer  of  the  criminal  case 

from  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other  appropriate  Court  under 

any of the limbs of section 46(1) of the Act, namely; (a), (b),(c) or (d).  

Hence, I would hold that, the Petitioner has failed to adduce sufficient grounds 

for a transfer of the criminal case from the Magistrate Court of Panadura to any 

other appropriate Court even under section 46(1)(d) of the Act.  

I  would  therefore,  hold  that  this  is  not  a  fit  and  proper  case  for  us  to  make 

order issuing notices on the Respondents. 

I would thus, refuse to issue notices on the Respondents. 

Hence, I would, dismiss the instant application in limine with costs.  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA). 

I agree. 

PRESIDENT (ACTING) OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

CA/TRF/0006/2025 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
