CA Bail 241-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for 

Bail  as  under  and  in  terms  of 

Section  83(2)  of 

the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance  of  17  of  1929  as 

amended  by  section  04  of  the  Act 

No.41 of 2022. 

Court of Appeal Bail Application   The Officer-in-Charge 

CA Bail/0241/24                      

Police Station, 

Madurankuliya.  

. 

 .                              Complainant 

MC Puttalam         

Vs. 

No. B 10958/2023             

        Junaideen Nasurdeen 

(In remand custody) 

Suspect 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Isadeen Fathima Jaspira 

No.30, Sembamaduwa, 

Palavi. 

Vs 

1.  Officer-in-Charge 

Police Station, 

Madurankuliya. 

Petitioner 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 241-2024 

2.  The Attorney General  

Attorney  General’s  Department 

Colombo-12. 

Respondents 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.  

COUNSEL                    : 

Nalin Fernando for the Petitioner.  

Jehan  Gunasekara,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

24/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

07/05/2025. 

***************************** 

                                           ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the wife  of the  Suspect (Hereinafter referred to as the 

Suspect) named in the Magistrate Court of Puttalam case bearing No. B 

10958/2023.   

According to the B report filed by the police, on 02.10.2023 when police 

officers  attached  to  Madurankiliya  Police  Station  were  engaged  in 

random  vehicle  search,  searched  a  vehicle  bearing  No.  NW  CAI-6981 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
 
CA Bail 241-2024 

the Suspect who was driving the vehicle had given a temporary licence 

issued by the Puttalam Police. At the same time, the Suspect had given 

a Bank of Ceylon ATM card to the passenger of the vehicle and directed 

him to draw Rs. 50,000/- from the ATM and offered Rs.20,000/- to the 

police.  Having  felt  suspicious  conduct  of  the  Suspect  when  police 

searched  the  vehicle  found  a  brown  paper  bag  wrapped  in  cellophane 

placed under the rug between the accelerator and the brake pedal of the 

car.  As  the  parcel  contained  some  substance  suspected  to  be 

Methamphetamine,  the Suspect was arrested with another  person and 

weighed the contraband. It contained 99.46 grams of substance. 

The  production  was  sent  to  the  Government  Analyst  Department  and 

according  to  the  report  76.64  grams  of  Methamphetamine  had  been 

detected from the substance sent for analysis.            

The  Suspect  and  the  other  person  were  produced  in  the  Magistrate 

Court of Puttalam under Section 54A (b) and (d) of the Poisons, Opium 

and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by Act No. 13 of 1984. 

According to the Petitioner, the Suspect  has been in remand little over 

18 months to date.   

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of the Bail Application.  

1.  The Suspect is in remand custody nearly 18 months. 

2.  The Suspect has no previous or pending case. 

3.  The  Suspect  has  one  child  and  is  the  sole  breadwinner  of  the 

family.   

4.  The  Suspect  is  an  old  iron  scrap  collector  and  he  was  only  a 

driver of the vehicle. 

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what 

is  exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case by case. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 241-2024 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”. 

In  CA(PHC)APN  107/2018  decided  on  19.03.2019  the  court  held  that 

remanding  for  a  period  of  one  year  and  five  months  without  being 

served with the in indictment was considered inter alia in releasing the 

suspect  on  bail.  According  to  the  Petitioner,  at  present  her  family  is 

going through untold hardship without proper income and care.    

The  Section  83  of  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Act 

which was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this  section,  a  person  suspected  or  accused  of  an  offence  under 

sections  54A  and  54B  of  this  Ordinance,  shall  not  be  released  on  bail 

by the High Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,   

shall  not  be  released  on  bail  except  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in 

exceptional circumstances. 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 241-2024 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production  by  the  Government  Analyst  is  76.64  grams.  Hence,  this 

court  has  jurisdiction  to  consider  granting  of  bail  as  per  the  new 

amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  urged  this  Court  to  consider  that 

detaining a  Suspect without any legal action for an extended period of 

time  amounts  to  a  violation  of  his  fundamental  rights  which  can  be 

considered as an exceptional ground. 

In  Nasher  v.  Director  of  Public  Prosecution  [2020]  VSCA  144  the 

court held that: 

“a  combination  of  delay,  onerous  custodial  conditions,  and  the 

relative  weakness  of  the  prosecution  case  may,  when  considered 

with  all  relevant  circumstances,  compel 

the  conclusion 

that 

exceptional circumstances have been established”. [Emphasis added] 

The  Petitioner  vehemently  denies  the  allegation  and  the  facts  reported 

by the police. 

One  of 

the  grounds  urged  by 

the 

learned  Counsel 

is 

that 

Methamphetamine  said  to  have  recovered  from  the  Suspect  was  an 

introduction.  Further,  the  Suspect  never  possessed  any 

illegal 

substance.   

In  this  case  the  probability  of  the  happening  of  the  incident  as 

described by the police need to be assessed thoroughly before the court 

could come to a final decision. This could only be done at a trial. Until 

such  time  keeping  the  Suspect  in  remand,  I  consider  is  not  proper 

under the circumstances of this matter.    

The  learned  State  Counsel  submits  that  the  investigation  notes 

pertaining  to  this  case  has  not  been  received  by  the  Attorney  General 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 241-2024 

up to now. Hence, I consider the delay little over 18 months in remand 

falls into the category of excessive and oppressive delay considering the 

circumstances of this case. 

Offences  under  Section  54A(b)  and  54A(d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is no 

doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offence alone cannot form 

a  ground  to  refuse  bail.  In  considering  these  matters,  the  court  must 

bear in mind the presumption of innocence. 

Further, bail should never be withheld as punishment. Granting of bail 

is  primarily  at  the  discretion  of  the  Courts.  The  discretion  should  be 

exercised  with  due care  and  caution  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 

circumstances of each case.    

Considering  all  these  factors  into  account,  especially  the  period  in 

remand, the circumstances of arrest and the other circumstances of the 

case, I consider this is an appropriate case to grant bail to the Suspect. 

Hence,  I  order  the  Suspect  be  granted  bail  with  following  strict 

conditions. 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.200,000/=.  

2.  To  provide  02  sureties.  They  must  sign  a  bond  of  two  million 

each. The Petitioner should be the one of the sureties. 

3.  The  Suspect  and  the  sureties  must  reside  in  the  address  given 

until conclusion of his case. 

4.  Not  to  approach  any  prosecution  witnesses  directly  or  indirectly 

or to interfere with. 

5.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel  document.  The  Controller  of  the 

Immigration  and 

Emigration is informed of the travel ban on the Suspect. 

6.  To report to the Madurankuliya Police Station on the second and 

last Sunday of every month between 9am to 1pm. 

7.  Any  breach  of  these  conditions  is  likely  to  result  in  the 

cancellation of his bail. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 241-2024 

The  Bail  is  allowed  and  the  Learned  Magistrate  of  Puttalam  is  hereby 

directed to enlarge the Suspect on bail on the above bail conditions. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  send  this  Bail  Order  to  the 

Magistrate Court of Puttalam and Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station 

Madurankuliya.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
