CA Bail 0133-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Application No.                      Police Station, 

CA Bail 0133/2024 

Katana. 

COMPLAINANT    

                Vs. 

Magistrate Court Negombo   Hapu Arachchige Rukshan Nilanga   

Case No: M 68274 

SUSPECT 

                            AND NOW BETWEEN 

Ambagahage Ranjani Fernando 

Muruthana, 

Kochchikade.  

     Vs. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
CA Bail 0133-2024 

1.  Th Officer-in-Charge 

Police Narcotics Bureau 

Colombo-01. 

2.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENTS 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.G.H Kulatunga, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Thanuka Nandasiri for the Petitioner.  

Wishwa  Wijesuriya,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

05/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

01/04/2025. 

***************************** 

        ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The  Petitioner  is  the  mother  of  the  Suspect  named  in  the  Negombo 

Magistrate Case No. M 68274.  

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
 
CA Bail 0133-2024 

According to the B report submitted by the Katana Police, the Suspect 

was  arrested  upon  an  investigation  carried  out  consequent  to  a  tip  off 

received by the Anti-Corruption Unit of the Negombo Division. Acting on 

that  information  a  car  bearing  No.  WP  CBG  7938  was  intercepted  at 

Thembiliwatta,  Katana.  The  Suspect  who  was  the  driver  of  the  vehicle 

was subjected to body search by the police. A parcel of substance was 

recovered underneath his underwear. As the substance recovered reacted 

for Heroin, the Suspect was arrested on 21.05.2023 and produced before 

the Magistrate of Negombo. The substance weighed about 70.920 grams. 

He is in remand to date. 

Upon  a  Court  order  the  substance  had  been  sent  to  the  Government 

Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst Report dated 

07.11.2023,  26.91  grams  of  pure  Heroin  (Diacetylmorphine)  had  been 

detected in the parcel.        

The Suspect was produced in the Magistrate Court of Negombo and facts 

were reported under Section 54A (d) and (b) of the Poisons, Opium and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984. 

The  Petitioner  alleges  that  previously  on  24.07.2020  the  Suspect  was 

arrested by the 1st Respondent for possession of 17.76 grams of Heroin. 

After his arrest, the Petitioner who was working in Japan received a call 

through  IMO  on  25.07.2020  and  15th  of  August  2020  demanding  five 

million rupees to release the Suspect. She had refused to give money and    

attempted to complain to higher authority. But was prevented by the 1st 

Respondent Unit by threatening her to harm her son.  

The Petitioner submit that the Suspect had been in remand for nearly 23 

months without filing any charge against them. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0133-2024 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for nearly 23 months. 

2.  The drugs were introduced to the Suspect by 1st Respondent. 

3.  The Suspect has 3 ½ year old child. 

4.  The Suspect is the sole breadwinner of the family.   

The State opposing to bail submitted that the Suspect had re-offended 

while on bail granted by this Court in case No. CA/PHC/APN 24/2022. 

This position was admitted by the Petitioner in her Petition.  

A history of re-offending while on bail can significantly influence future 

bail  decisions.  Courts  generally  consider  several 

factors  when 

determining  whether  to  grant  bail,  including  the  likelihood  of  the 

defendant  fleeing,  committing  further  crimes,  or  interfering  with 

witnesses. 

The goal of the bail system is to balance the presumption of innocence 

with the need to protect public safety and ensure the individual returns 

to court. A history of re-offending while on bail undermines this balance 

and increases the perceived risk of releasing the individual, which can 

make future bail requests more challenging. 

Carder  (On  behalf  of  Rashid  Kahan)  v  Officer-in-Charge  Narcotic 

Bureau (2006) 3 Sri L R. 74 per Eric Basnayake. J.  

"These types of offences affect the society at large. The law should 

not be made impotent that it does not serve the Society and the anti-

social element should not be given licence to create havoc in Society”. 

Learned  State  Counsel  submitted  that  the  delay  is  not  an  exceptional 

circumstance to be considered to enlarge the Suspect on bail. Further, in 

this case, the time spent for preparing the indictment does not constitute 

an  exceptional  circumstance  as  the  Suspect  had  re-offended  while  on 

bail.  

4 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0133-2024 

The Suspect is in remand nearly 23 months. According to Government 

Analyst Report, the pure quantity of Heroin detected from the possession 

of the Suspect is 26.91grams.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0133-2024 

In this case, the pure quantity of Heroin detected in the production by 

the  Government  Analyst  is  26.91grams.  Hence,  this  court  has 

jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Suspect in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

In  this  case  the  Suspect  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(d),  and  (b)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.The offences are very 

serious offences and the seriousness of the offence should be considered 

when bail is considered.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that this is not appropriate case 

to  consider  the  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the 

investigations  at  this  stage.  It  can  only  be  tested  at  the  trial  upon  the 

witnesses being cross examined and re-examined.  

In this case the Suspect was re-offended while on bail sanctioned by the 

Court. He had already violated the bail conditions imposed by the Court.  

In this case the pure Heroin detected is  26.91grams, which certainly a 

very  high  commercial  quantity.  Considering  the  seriousness  of  the 

sentence  prescribed  under  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance, there is a high risk of absconding. 

Hence, I do not consider the delay nearly 23 months in remand falls into 

the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of  Heroin  detected,  re-offended  while  on  bail,  the  charges  going  to  be 

framed  against  the  Suspect  and  circumstances  of  the  case,  I  consider 

this  is  not  an  appropriate  case  to  sanction  bail  to  the  Suspect  at  this 

stage. Hence, I refuse to release the Suspect on bail. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0133-2024 

Hence, this Bail Application is dismissed. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  this  order  to  the  Magistrate 

Court of Negombo and Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station, Katana. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.G.H. Kulatunga, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
