IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  under  and  in 
terms  of  Section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act  No  2 
of  1978  (as  amended)  for  transfer  of  Panadura 
Magistrates Court Case 51904/17. 

Court of Appeal Case No. 
CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Ronald Michael Stanley, 
Permanently Residing at  
4 Natalie Court Cranbourne Victoria 3977 
Australia 

Temporarily Residing at 
49 Lionel Edirisinghe Mw 
Colombo 5 

Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  OIC Minor Offences, 
Panadura Police,  
Panadura. 

2.  Honourable Attorney General,  

Attorney General’s Department,  
Colombo -12.   

Respondents 

Before 

:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).  

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

Counsel 

: 

Petitioner is appearing in person.  
Ms. Suharshi Herath, DSG for the State.    

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supported on 

:        11.03.2025                   

Written Submissions of  
the Petitioner on   

: 

23.04.2025 

Written Submissions  
of the Respondents on 

: 

20.03.2025 

Decided on   

:         09.05.2025 

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J. 

This is an application made to this Court under and in terms of section 46 of 

the Judicature Act (as amended) (hereinafter called and referred to as ‘the Act’) 

by the Petitioner appearing in person for the transfer of a case pending in the 

Magistrate Court of Panadura bearing No. 51904/18, where the Petitioner is an 

accused, to any other appropriate Court that this Court shall deem fit.  

When  this  matter  came  on  before  us  on  11.03.2025  for  support  for  notice  of  

the  instant  application  for  transfer,  the  Petitioner  submitted  to  Court  that 

matter would of consent, be disposed of by way of written submissions. It was 

further submitted to Court by the Petitioner that he would however, rely on the 

petition  already,  submitted  to  Court  in  support  of  the  same  and  therefore  not 

willing to tender written submissions in support thereof, whereas, learned DSG 

appearing  for  the  Respondents  moved  to  file  written  submissions.  It  is  to  be 

noted  that  written  submissions  were  however,  tendered  to  Court  by  both  the 

Petitioner  as  well  as  the  Respondents.  Hence,  we  are  proceeding  to  hear  and 

determine the application of the Petitioner for notice of the instant application 

for  transfer  on  the  strength  of  the  written  submissions  thus,  submitted  to 

Court by both parties of consent.  

The  Petitioner  in  his  petition  and  affidavit,  had  averred  several  facts  and 

circumstances  which  according  to  him warrant  a  transfer  of  the  said  criminal 

case pending before the Magistrate Court of Panadura where he is the accused.  

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the facts and circumstances averred in the petition and affidavit, 

Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  who  wielded  connections  to  the  political  hierarchy  in  the 

area and the local police, Ms. Mangalika-wife of Mr. Senaka Kumara and their 

associates  had  caused  acts  of  intimidation  and  harassment  on  the  Petitioner 

who  holds  a  dual  citizenship  of  Sri  Lanka  and  Australia  and  who  in  the  year 

2000,  bought  an  island  named,  Kokduwa  located  in  the  Bolgoda  Lake, 

Panadura  with  intention  of  building  the  first  island  golf  course  in  Asia  in 

collaboration  with  and  incorporating  substantial  foreign  investment  and 

partnership,  Ms.  Cleo  Muller  who  was  the  Petitioner’s  business  partner  and 

who had purchased Tuduwe Waththa from one Mr. Perera as being access road 

to the said island named Kokduwa in the year 2009, and the Petitioner’s staff 

as  a  direct  result  of  refusal  by  the  Petitioner  and  Ms.  Muller  to  succumb  to 

extortion  of  Rs.  2,000,000/-  demanded  by  Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  for  a  peaceful 

passage to the proposed project land; that since then, there had been constant 

conflicts  between  the  Petitioner,  Ms.  Muller  on  the  one  hand  and  Mr.  Senaka 

Kumara  and  his  wife  Ms.  Mangalika  and  their  associates  on  the  other,  as  a 

result  of  which  a  significant  number  of  complaints  and  counter  complaints  

had  been  lodged  to  Panadura  and  Hirana  Police  stations,  by  both  the 

Petitioner, Ms. Muller and Mr. Senaka Kumara and his wife Ms. Mangalika as a 

result  of  which  a    number  of  cases  had  been  filed  before  Magistrate  Court  of 

Panadura,  by  Police  against  the  Petitioner  and  Mr.  Senaka  Kumara  as  well 

which are still, pending in Court; that the said criminal case which was filed by 

Panadura  Police  against  the  Petitioner  on  a  complaint  made  to  therein  by  the 

said  Ms.  Mangalika  on  an  alleged  sexual  assault  on  her  by  the  Petitioner  in 

respect  of  which  the  instant  application  for  transfer  from  Magistrate  Court  of 

Panadura to any other appropriate Court had been now,  made to this Court by 

the  Petitioner  in  the  instant  application  for  transfer,  was  a  direct  result  of  a 

conspiracy directed towards the Petitioner  by Mr. Senaka Kumara and his wife 

Ms.  Mangalika  with  Panadura  Police  acting  hand-in-glove  with  Mr.  Senaka 

Kumara and his wife Ms. Mangalika. 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 3 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  those  circumstances,  the  Petitioner  specifically,  states  in  paragraphs  108 

and 120 of his petition that considering the unlawful malicious actions of Mr. 

Fernando, his political connections in Panadura, the death threats against him 

and  his  employees,  the  narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the 

officers  concerned  of  the  Panadura  Police,  the  intense  pain  and  suffering  that 

he had been put through wasting 15 years of his life in view of his inability to 

attend to his mother’s funeral and also his inability to get back to Australia due 

to  impound  of  his  passport  by  Court,  he  truly,  believes  that  there  is  a  risk  to 

his life due to the said criminal case being heard any further by the Magistrate 

Court  of  Panadura  thereby,  warranting  transfer  of  the  same  therefrom  to  any 

other appropriate Court for early disposal of the same.    

It  is  in  this  backdrop  of  the  instant  application,  I  would  now,  propose  to 

examine the provisions of law governing an application of this kind.  

It is Section 46(1) of the Act which lays down the grounds of transfer of a case 

from one Court to another and it enacts thus;  

“46. (1) Whenever it appears to the Court of Appeal  

(a)  that  a  fair  and  impartial  trial  cannot  be  had  in  any  particular 

court or place; or  

(b)  that  some  questions  of  law  of  unusual  difficulties  are  likely  to 

arise; or  

(c) that a view of the place in or near which any offence is alleged 

to  have  been  committed  may  be  required  for  the  satisfactory 

inquiry into or trial of the same ; or 

(d) that it is so expedient on any other ground,  

the  court  may  order  upon  such  terms  as  to  the  payment  of  costs  or 

otherwise  as  the  said  Court  thinks  fit,  for  the  transfer  of  any  action, 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 4 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prosecution, proceeding or matter pending before any court to any other 

court,  and  accordingly  in  every  such  case,  the  court  to  which  any  such 

action,  prosecution,  proceeding  or  matter  is  so  transferred  shall, 

notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  or  any  other  law,  take 

cognizance  of  and  have  the  power  and  jurisdiction  to  hear,  try  and 

determine  such  action,  prosecution,  proceeding  or  matter,  as  fully  and 

effectually  to  all  intents  and  purposes  as  if  such  Court  had  an  original 

power and jurisdiction.”  

Upon a careful reading of the averments in the petition of the Petitioner in its 

totality,  it  becomes  manifestly  clear  that,  the  Petitioner  does  not  in  any 

manner, state therein under which limb of Section 46(1) of the Act, namely; (a), 

(b), (c) or (d) he makes the instant application for transfer of the said criminal 

case from Panadura Magistrate Court to any other appropriate Court.  

It is in this context, I would think it necessary and expedient at this juncture to 

precisely,  ascertain  in  the  first  instance  from  the  facts  and  circumstances  

averred  in  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner,  under  which  limb  of  Section  46(1)  of 

the Act namely; (a), (b), (c) or (d), the Petitioner seeks transfer of the aforesaid 

criminal case. 

Upon  a  careful  reading  of  the  averments  in  the  petition  in  its  entirety,  it 

becomes manifestly, clear that as a basis of his application  for transfer under 

section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  it  was  not  in  any  manner,  alleged  therein  by  the 

Petitioner  that  (a)  a  fair  and  impartial  trial  cannot  be  had  in  the  Magistrate 

Court of Panadura; or, that (b) some questions of law of unusual difficulties are 

likely to arise before the Magistrate Court of Panadura; or, that (c) a view of the 

place  in  or  near  which  any  offence  is  alleged  to  have  been  committed  may  be 

required for the satisfactory inquiry into or trial of the same; 

However, as can be deducible from the averments in paragraphs 108 and 120 

of  his  petition  in  particular,  the  pivotal  basis  of  the  instant  application  for 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 5 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transfer  of  the  aforesaid  criminal  case  being  “a  risk  to  his  life  due  to 

unlawful,  malicious  actions  of  Mr.  Senaka  Fernando,  his  political 

connections  in  Panadura,  the  death  threats  against  him  and  his 

employees,  the  narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the 

officers concerned  of the Panadura Police, the intense pain and suffering 

he  had  been  put  through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life”  in  view  of  the  facts 

and  circumstances  as  more  fully  elaborated  in  his  petition  by  the  Petitioner. 

[Emphasis is mine] 

In  view  of  the  matters  specifically,  averred  in  paragraphs  108  and  120  of  the 

petition  as  enumerated  above,  the  instant  application  for  the  transfer  of  the 

said  criminal  case  clearly,  appears  to  me  to  be  one  falling  under  limb  (d)  of 

section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  namely;  that  it  is  so  expedient  on  any  other 

ground. [Emphasis is mine]  

The  pivotal  question  that  would  next,  arise  before  us  is;  On  whom  does  the 

burden of proof lay in an application of this kind and the scope and or the 

nature of it? 

It  was 

inter-alia,  held  by 

this  Court 

in  Sivasubramaniam  Vs. 

Sivasubramaniam  [1980]  2  SLR  58,  at  Page  64,  that  “A  party  to  an  action 

who seeks a transfer of a pending action from the Court in which it is pending 

to  another  Court  must  adduce  ‘sufficient  grounds’  to  satisfy  us  that  it  is 

expedient  to  make  an  order  for  its  transfer.  ‘Expedient”  in  this  context,  in  my 

view, means fit or proper. A transfer would not be ordered on light grounds.” 

It was inter-alia, held by this Court in Abdul Hasheeb vs. Mendis Perera and 

Others  [1991]  1  SLR  243  at  pages  257  and  258  that,  “.......the  expression 

‘expedient’  in  the  context  means,  advisable  in  the  interests  of  the  justice 

indeed,  the  purpose  of  conferring  the  power  of  transfer  as  provided  for  in 

section  46  of  the  Judicature  Act,  is  to  ensure  the  due  administration  of 

justice.”.   

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 6 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  was  inter-alia,  held  by  this  Court  in  Karunaratne  Vs.  Simon  Singho  and 

Others [2011] 2 SLR 22, at page 25 that “…..expedient would mean advisable 

in the interest of justice”.  

In order to succeed in his application for transfer of the said criminal case, the 

Petitioner is bound to discharge the burden of proof so rested upon him. Now 

the pivotal question is whether the Petitioner was successful in discharging the 

same.   

It may now, be examined.  

In  view  of  the  above,  in  order  to  succeed  in  his  application  for  transfer  of  the 

said  case  from  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other  appropriate  Court 

under  Section  46  of  the  Act,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the  Petitioner  to  establish 

the  pivotal  ground  adverted  to  by  him  in  paragraphs  108  and  120  of  his 

petition in that, the Petitioner is bound to prove to the satisfaction of this Court 

that 

the 

facts  and  circumstances  so  alleged 

thereby,  namely; 

that 

“Considering the unlawful malicious actions of Mr. Fernando, his political 

connections  in  Panadura,  the  death  threats  against  him  and  his 

employees,  the  narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the 

officers concerned  of the Panadura Police, the intense pain and suffering 

that  he  had  been  put  through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life  he  truly, 

believes that there is a risk to his life due to the said criminal case being 

heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby, 

warranting transfer of the same therefrom to any other appropriate Court 

for  early  disposal  of  the  same”,  do  really,  exist,  warranting  this  Court  to 

exercise  its  discretionary  powers  vested  in  it  by  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  in 

granting  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  said  criminal  case  from 

Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other  appropriate  Court  as  urged  by  the 

Petitioner in prayer (c) of his petition. [Emphasis is mine] 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 7 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In support of the instant application, the Petitioner, has annexed to his petition 

a significant number of documents marked as ‘X to X17’ and “A1 to A31”.  

Documents annexed to the petition marked ‘X to X17’ are a duly, certified copy 

of the entire proceedings of the Magistrate Court of Panadura pertaining to the 

said  criminal  case  bearing  No.  51904-the  subject  matter  of  the  instant 

application for transfer.  

And it clearly, shows that trial of the said criminal case had already, begun on 

the  amended  charge  sheet  dated  24.05.2023  and  the  examination  in  chief  of 

the  virtual-complainant-  the  said  Ms.  Magalika  had  also,  been  concluded  and 

cross examination too had taken place partly, and further trial had thus, been 

fixed for 03.07.2024 before the Magistrate Court of Panadura when the instant 

application for transfer was made to this Court by the Petitioner on 28.01.2025 

which  clearly,  and  unequivocally  shows  that  the  Petitioner  had  duly, 

participated at the trial from the very inception of the case up to the last date of 

the trial thus, fixed by Court as recent as 03.07.2024 by appearing through his 

duly  retained  Attorney-At-Law  without  any  complaint  and  or  allegation  of 

whatsoever  kind  being  made  to  the  effect  that,  “Considering  the  unlawful 

malicious actions of Mr. Fernando, his political connections in Panadura, 

the  death  threats  against  him  and  his  employees,  the  narcissistic, 

psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the  officers  concerned  of  the 

Panadura  Police,  the  intense  pain  and  suffering  that  he  had  been  put 

through wasting 15 years of his life he truly, believes that there is a risk 

to  his  life  due  to  the  said  criminal  case  being  heard  any  further  by  the 

Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby,  warranting  transfer  of  the  same 

therefrom  to  any  other  appropriate  Court  for  early  disposal  of  the  same” 

as  alleged  by  paragraphs  108  and  120  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner  which 

would in my opinion, totally, militate against his assertion so made by the said 

paragraphs 108 and 120 of his petition as enumerated above as being the sole 

basis urged by the Petitioner in the instant application for transfer of the said 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 8 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
criminal case from the Magistrate Court of Panadura to any other appropriate 

Court for; nowhere had it been averred in his petition by the Petitioner that, he 

had  ever,  adverted  to  a  position  as  such  before  the  learned  Magistrate  of 

Panadura  or  before  any  other  competent  forum  at  any  stage  of  the  said 

criminal  case  from  its  very  inception  to  the  stage  of  making  this  application 

before  this  Court  for  transfer  of  the  same  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  that 

“there  is  a  risk  to  his  life  due  to  the  said  criminal  case  being  heard  any 

further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby,  warranting  transfer 

of the same therefrom to any other appropriate Court for early disposal of 

the same” for the reasons stated in by paragraphs 108 and 120 of the petition 

of the Petitioner as enumerated above, instead the Petitioner himself had opted 

and  elected  to  stand  the  trial  and  defended  himself,  through  duly  retained 

Attorney-At–Law  from  its  very  inception  until  the  stage  of  making  this 

application before this Court for transfer of the same under section 46(1) of the 

Act at the very late stage of the said criminal case.[Emphasis is mine] 

I  would  therefore,  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  said 

criminal  case  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  cannot  sustain  both  in  fact  and 

law and therefore, not entitled to succeed both in fact and law, on this ground 

alone.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  said 

criminal  case  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  bears  no  merit  and  therefore,  it 

ought to be dismissed on this ground alone.  

Moreover,  upon  a  careful  scrutiny  of  documents  annexed  to  his  petition 

marked  as  ‘A1’,  ‘A2’,  ‘A3’,  ‘A4’,  ‘A5’,  ‘A6’,  ‘A7’,  ‘A8’,  ‘A9’,  ‘A10’,  ‘A11’, 

‘A12’,  ‘A13’,  ‘A14’,  ‘A15’,  ‘A16’,  ‘A17’,  ‘A18’,  ‘A19’,  ‘A19a’,  ‘A20’,  ‘A20a’, 

‘A21’, ‘A22’, ‘A23’, ‘A24’, ‘A25’, ‘A26’, ‘A27’, ‘A28’, ‘A29’, ‘A30’  and ‘A31’ 

in  its  totality,  it  clearly,  and  manifestly,  shows  that  no  complaint  to  the  effect 

that,  “Considering  the  unlawful  malicious  actions  of  Mr.  Fernando,  his 

political  connections  in  Panadura,  the  death  threats  against  him  and  his 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
employees,  the  narcissistic,  psychopathic,  predatory  behavior  of  the 

officers concerned  of the Panadura Police, the intense pain and suffering 

that  he  had  been  put  through  wasting  15  years  of  his  life  he  truly, 

believes that there is a risk to his life due to the said criminal case being 

heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby, 

warranting transfer of the same therefrom to any other appropriate Court 

for  early  disposal  of  the  same”,  being  lodged  by  the  petitioner  to  the 

Magistrate Court of Panadura and or any other competent forum at any stage 

of  the  said  criminal  case  from  its  very  inception  to  the  stage  of  making  this 

application before this Court for transfer of the same under section 46(1) of the 

Act  as  alleged  by  paragraphs  108  and  120  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner 

which  would  in  my  opinion,  totally,  militate  against  his  assertion  so  made  by 

the said paragraphs 108 and 120 of his petition as enumerated above as being 

the sole basis urged by the Petitioner in the instant application for transfer of 

the  said  criminal  case  from  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other 

appropriate  Court  for;  nowhere  had  it  been  averred  in  his  petition  by  the 

Petitioner  that,  he  had  ever,  adverted  to  a  position  as  such  before  the 

learned  Magistrate  of  Panadura  or  before  any  other  competent  forum  at 

any  stage  of  the  said  criminal  case  from  its  very  inception  to  the  stage  of 

making this application before this Court for transfer of the same under section 

46(1) of the Act that “there is a risk to his life due to the said criminal case 

being  heard  any  further  by  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  thereby, 

warranting transfer of the same therefrom to any other appropriate Court 

for  early  disposal  of  the  same”  for  the  reasons  stated  in  by  paragraphs  108 

and  120  of  the  petition  of  the  Petitioner  as  enumerated  above,  instead  the 

Petitioner  himself  had  opted  and  elected  to  stand  the  trial  and  defended 

himself,  through  duly  retained  Attorney-At–Law  from  its  very  inception  until 

the stage of making this application before this Court for transfer of the same 

under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  at  the  very  late  stage  of  the  said  criminal 

case.[Emphasis is mine] 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I  would  therefore,  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  said 

criminal  case  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act,  cannot  sustain  both  in  fact  and 

law and therefore, not entitled to succeed both in fact and law, on this ground 

too.  

Hence,  I  would  hold  that,  the  instant  application  for  transfer  of  the  said 

criminal  case  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  bears  no  merit  and  therefore,  it 

ought to be dismissed on this ground too.  

In  view  of  all  the  above  circumstances,  I  would  hold  that  the  Petitioner  has 

failed  to  establish  to  the  satisfaction  of  this  Court  such 

facts  and 

circumstances  as  urged  by  him  in  paragraphs  108  and  120  of  his  petition  as 

the  basis  for  his  application  under  section  46(1)  of  the  Act  for  transfer  of  the 

said  criminal  case  from  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  appropriate 

Court. 

On a careful consideration of all the relevant material placed before us, I would 

hold  that  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  adduce  sufficient  grounds  to  satisfy  us 

that  it  would  be  expedient  to  make  order  for  the  transfer  of  the  said  criminal 

case  from  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Panadura  to  any  other  appropriate  Court 

under any of the limbs of section 46(1) of the Act, namely; (a), (b),(c) or (d).  

Hence, I would hold that, the Petitioner has failed to adduce sufficient grounds 

for a transfer of the said criminal case from the Magistrate Court of Panadura 

to any other appropriate Court even under section 46(1)(d) of the Act.  

I  would  therefore,  hold  that  this  is  not  a  fit  and  proper  case  for  us  to  make 

order issuing notices on the Respondents. 

I would thus, refuse to issue notices on the Respondents. 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hence, I would, dismiss the instant application in limine with costs.  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA). 

I agree. 

PRESIDENT (ACTING) OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

CA/TRF/0002/2025 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
