IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

BAL/0317/24 

In the matter of an Application for Bail 

under  and  in  terms  of  Section  83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous 

Drugs  Ordinance  No.  17  of  1929  as 

amended  by  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 

41 of 2022. 

The Officer-in-Charge, 

Police Narcotics Bureau, 

Court of Appeal Case No. 

Colombo 01. 

CA/BAL/0317/2024 

            Complainant 

Magistrates Court of Negombo       Vs. 

Case No. M/41585/21 

Warnakulasuriya Mudalige Nuwan 

Dhanushka Fernando. 

    2nd Suspect 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Lakshika Janadarie Gamage, 

No. 134/191, Stasepura 2nd Phase, 

Colombo 14. 

Vs. 

       Petitioner 

1.  The Officer-in-Charge, 

Police Narcotics Bureau, 

Colombo 01. 

 Complainant-Respondent 

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
BAL/0317/24 

2.  Hon. Attorney General, 

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo 12.  

    Respondent 

BEFORE :   

P. KUMARARATNAM, J.  

K.M.G.H KULATUNGA, J. 

COUNSEL:   

Shamangi Silva for the Petitioner.  

Jehan Gunasekara, SC with Tharaka Kodagoda, SC for the  

Respondents. 

INQUIRY ON:  

06.02.2025  

DECIDED ON: 

03.03.2025 

K.M.G.H KULATUNGA, J. 

ORDER 

1.  The  application  bearing  no’s  CA-BAL-316-24  and  CA-BAL  317-24  are 

connected  in  that  they  are  in  respect  of  the  3rd  suspect  Don  Sankha 

Randima Ramzy Kodagoda and the 2nd suspect Wickramasuryia Mudalige 

Nuwan  Danushka  Fernando  respectively  in  MC  Negambo  case  No. 

M/41585/21  of  which  the  1st  suspect  is  a  Tunisian  national  named 

Hamidi  Mounir.  The  learned  Counsel  appearing  for  petitioners  in  both 

these  applications  is  Shamangi  Silva  and  the  learned  State  Counsel 

agreed  to  have  these  applications  considered  together  and  to  be 

determined by a single order.    

2. These  applications  for  bail  made  under  the  Provision  of  Section  83(2)  of 

Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance.  According  to  the 

petitioner, the 3rd suspect was arrested on 15.11.2021 by the officers of 

the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB). The circumstances that lead to the arrest 

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL/0317/24 

of  3rd  suspect  are  as  follows;  on  15.11.2021  the  said  Tunisian  national 

Hamidi Mounir had arrived in Sri Lanka and was about to embark through 

the  customs  at  the  Bandaranaike  International  Airport.  However,  the 

customs officers caused his bags to be searched and a substance similar 

to cocaine was detected and the suspect along with the recovered item was 

handed over to the PNB.  

3. A  total  gross  quantity  of  3.989kg  of  cocaine  is  alleged  to  have  been 

recovered from the 1st suspect of which the pure quantity is 3.7658kg. The 

immediate investigations had revealed that a person was due to meet the 

said  Mounir  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  1st  suspect)  at  a  hotel  in 

Colombo to collect said narcotics. Messages to this effect were  found on 

the phone of the 1st suspect. The details of the room number and the hotel 

were  available  in  the  said  messages.  Acting  on  this  information,  the  2nd 

and the 3rd suspects were arrested around 7.35pm at the designated hotel 

room.  

4. The  learned  State  Counsel  submitted  that  the  drugs  were  found  in  the 

possession of the 1st suspect and the evidence that links the 2nd and 3rd 

suspects  to  the  1st  suspect  and  of  abetment  to  traffick  emanates  from 

telephone  details  and  the  messages  along  with  the 

immediate 

investigations conducted by the PNB leading to the arrest of the 2nd and 

3rd suspect.   

5. The Attorney General has sent out indictment an against all three suspects 

under AG’s reference No. CR3/70/2023. The main ground of exceptionality 

urged on behalf of the 2nd and the 3rd suspects is the delay in instituting 

action. It was submitted that the prosecution has taken over two and half 

years  to  send  out  the  indictment  and  also  that  there  is  no  exclusive 

possession of the narcotics. 

6. Now let’s consider the issue of delay.  The mere lapse of time will not by 

itself  be  exceptional  unless  such  effluxion  of  time  is  excessive  or 

oppressive. As held in Attorney General v. Ediriweera (S.C. Appeal No. 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL/0317/24 

100/2005),  “Delay  is  always  a  relative  term  and  the  question  to  be 

considered is not whether there was mere explicable delay, as when there 

is a backlog of cases, but whether there has been excessive or oppressive 

delay  and  this  always  depends  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 

case…”. 

7. No doubt it has taken almost three years for the indictment to have been 

dispatched to the High Court of Negombo. Three years certainly is a long 

period of time. According to the learned State Counsel, in view of the nature 

of the detection it was necessary to conduct further investigations to obtain 

telephone details and collect and collate the incriminating evidence against 

the 2nd and the 3rd suspects. Further investigations have been conducted 

on the advice of the Attorney General. The collection and tabulating this 

further material is the explanation for the time lapse. 

8. As stated above it is well settled that the lapse of time by itself does not 

convert such effluxion of time in to a circumstance that is exceptional. It 

is relative to the circumstances. If there be a lapse of time over and above 

the  normal  time  requirements  to  conduct  investigations,  process  and 

institute action then it is incumbent upon the respondents to explain the 

reasons for such lapse of time. In the absence of which time so taken may 

be deemed to be undue and considered as being excessive or oppressive.  

9. In  the  present  matter,  a  foreign  national  had  been  nabbed  and 

apprehended with narcotics at the airport and the 2nd and the 3rd suspects 

appear to be the local contacts and couriers who were due to collect and 

traffick  the  said  narcotics.  It  is  quite  normal  and  necessary  in  such 

circumstances  for  the  investigators  to  collect  sufficient  evidence  to 

establish the link between the 2nd and the 3rd Accused. It takes time. That 

exactly  is  what  had  happened  in  the  present  instance.  Therefore, 

considered  in  context,  the  time  taken  is  by  no  means  excessive  or 

oppressive.  

Page 4 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL/0317/24 

10. The  indictment  is  now  before  the  High  Court  of  Negombo.  The  learned 

Counsel for the 2nd and 3rd suspects submitted that the trial at Negombo 

High Court may take a long time. As stated above, the time lag is a relative 

term depending on the circumstances of each case. However unpalatable 

it may be, it is a notorious fact that due to the backlog of cases delays in 

the  judicial  process  is  prevalent.  This  is  a  circumstance  common  to  all 

cases pending in such Courts. A circumstance common to all similar cases 

cannot become or be considered as being exceptional in this context.  

11. Let’s  consider  what  “exceptional”  means.  “Exceptional"  is  a  word 

commonly  used  in  legislation.  One  definition  of  it  in  the  New  Shorter 

Oxford  English  Dictionary  is:  "Of  the  nature  of  or  forming  an  exception, 

unusual, out of the ordinary, special" (see vol. 1 p.872). Websters Dictionary 

contains the following definition: "Relating to or forming an exception, out 

of the ordinary course, unusual, uncommon, extraordinary". Whatever may 

be  the  definition  one  chooses  to  adopt  to  my  mind  the  intention  of  the 

legislature is clear that any person charged with an offence falling within 

the  provisions  of Section  83  (2)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium,  and  Dangerous 

Drugs Ordinance bears the onus of establishing and satisfying that there 

is some unusual or uncommon circumstance in his case before a court is 

justified in releasing him on bail.  

12. In  the  above  premises,  it  is  our  view  that  the  petitioners  in  these  two 

applications have not been able to satisfy this Court as to the existence of 

any  circumstance  that  is  exceptional.  Accordingly,  we  are  left  with  no 

option but to refuse and reject the applications bearing Nos. CA-BAL-316-

24 and CA-BAL 317-24. These applications are refused and rejected. 

13. The  applications  CA-BAL-316-24  and  CA-BAL  317-24  are  accordingly 

dismissed.       

Page 5 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAL/0317/24 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

I agree. 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
