IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 
LANKA 

CA Contempt Application No:  

DC Batticaloa Case No.  

L 5385/10 

CA/COC/0014/2022 

In  the  matter  of  an  Application  for  Mandates  in  the 
nature  of  Writs  of  Certiorari,  Mandamus  and 
Prohibition  under  and  in  terms  of  Article  140  of  the 
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka.  

S. H. Abdul Raheem 
No.156, Ibrahim Manzil Road, 
Kattankudy 01.  

PETITIONER 

Vs. 

V. Vasuthevan 
Divisional Secretary, 
Manmunai North, 
Batticaloa.  

RESPONDENT 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before:     M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (President C/A)- Acting. 

          K. M. S. Dissanayake, J.  

Counsel:       M. Nizam Kariapper, P. C. with Ilham Kariapper and Chathurika Perera, 

instructed by M. I. M. Iynullah for the Petitioner. 

Nirmalan Wigneshwaran, D. S. G. for the Respondents. 

Supported on:   04. 03. 2025                             

Decided on:       30. 04. 2025    

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J. (President of The Court of Appeal- Acting) 

The  Petitioner,  in  terms  of  the  provisions  of  the  Contempt  of  Court,  Tribunal,  or 
Institution Act No. 08 of 2024, having filed a motion along with an affidavit, moves that 
the Respondent be held for contempt of court. 

We heard the learned Counsel for the Petitioner in support of this application, as well as 
the learned Counsel for the Respondent. 

The Petitioner, having filed the Petition and the affidavit, moves that a Rule be issued 
against  the  Respondent  for  contempt  of  Court.  On  04.03.2025,  this  Court  heard  the 
learned  President’s  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  in  support  of  this  application.  We  also 
heard the learned Deputy Solicitor General appearing for the Respondents. 

In summary, an interpleader action was filed in the District Court of Batticaloa by the 
Divisional Secretary of Batticaloa concerning certain land acquired by the State. There 
were 14 claimants named in the Petition, all asserting title to the subject property and 
claiming compensation. 

When  the  matter  was  taken  up  for  argument  before  the  learned  District  Judge,  the 
Petitioner  and  the  Divisional  Secretary  reached  a  settlement.  Under  the  terms  of  the 
settlement,  the  2nd  to  14th  Defendants  were  to  receive  specified  sums  from  the 
Petitioner in exchange for withdrawing their claims. The Petitioner duly paid the agreed 
amounts, and the said Defendants withdrew their claims. Consequently, the Petitioner 
became the sole owner of the acquired land and the sole claimant to compensation. 

Thereafter,  the  Petitioner  requested  the  Divisional  Secretary  to  issue  an  award  in  his 
favour  under  Section  17  of  the  Land  Acquisition  Act  No.  9  of  1950  (as  amended). 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  the  Divisional  Secretary  failed  to  comply  with  this  request.  In  these 
circumstances, it appears to this Court that the Divisional Secretary, having induced the 
Petitioner to settle the dispute by paying compensation to the 2nd to 14th Defendants, 
subsequently  failed  to  fulfil  his  obligation  to  issue  the  award,  thereby  amounting  to 
contempt of court. 

Having considered the Petition, affidavit, annexed documents, and the submissions of the 
learned President’s Counsel for the Petitioner and the learned Deputy Solicitor General 
for the Respondent, it is the view of this Court that the Petitioner has established a prima 
facie case of contempt of court against the Respondent. 

Accordingly, this Court has decided to issue a Rule against the Respondent for contempt 
of court. The Registrar is directed to take necessary steps to issue the Rule, returnable on 
the next date. 

K. M. S. Dissanayake, J. 

I agree. 

President of the Court of Appeal (Actg) 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
