CA Bail 463-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for  Bail 

made  under  and  in  terms  of  the  Section 

83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance amended by 

Act No.41 of 2022. 

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Bail Application No: 

          Police Station   

CA Bail 0463/2024 

Mulleriyawa. 

COMPLAINANAT                          

Vs 

MC Colombo  

Mahawaththage Don Bhuddika Jayalath 

Case No.B 15947/08/24  

    (Presently in Colombo Remand Prison)

SUSPECT 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Gnanaratne Achini Shamika 

No.499/2/8/1,  

Sri Parakum Mawatha,  

Mulleriyawa. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 463-2024 

ON BEHALF OF 

Mahawaththage Don Bhuddika Jayalath 

(Presently in Colombo Remand Prison) 

Vs 

1.  The Officer-in- Charge 

Police Station,  

        Mulleriyawa.  

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT                  

    2. The Attorney General 

         Attorney  General’s  Department,

         Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENT 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J. 

K.M.S.Dissananyake, J.  

COUNSEL                    : 

Pradeepa  Abeyrathna  instructed  by 

Charitha  Maduwanthi 

for 

the 

Petitioner.  

Jehan  Gunasekara,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

19/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

08/05/2025. 

***************************** 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 463-2024 

ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the wife of the Suspect named in this application. The 

Suspect  is  named  as  the  Suspect  in  M.C.Colombo  Case  No.  B 

15947/08/24.  The  Petitioner  had  applied  for  bail  in  terms  of  Section 

83(2)  of  the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance  as 

amended by the Amendment Act No 41 of 2022. 

On  19.04.2024,  the  Suspect  was  arrested  by  officers  attached  to  the 

Mulleriyawa  Police  Station  upon  an  information.  The  Suspect  was 

arrested  in  front  of  his  house  and  when  police  checked  the  Suspect 

found  some  substance  which  reacted  for  Methamphetamine.  The 

substance recovered from the Suspect weighed about 100 grams.  

The  suspect  was  produced  and  facts  were  reported  to  the  Colombo 

Magistrate under Section 54A (b) and (d) and of the Poisons, Opium and 

Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance  as  amended  by  the  Act  No.13  of  1984. 

Further, a detention order was obtained for further investigations under 

Section 82(3) of the said Act. 

The  production  had  been  sent  to  the  Government  Analyst  Department 

on 22/04/2024. After analysis, the Government Analyst had forwarded 

the  report  to  Court  on  09/10/2024.  According  to  the  Government 

Analyst,  17.86  grams  of  pure  Methamphetamine  had  been  detected 

from the substance sent for the analysis.   

The  Suspect  is  a  father  of  two  children.  He  is  the  sole  breadwinner  of 

the  family.  The  safety  of  the  two  children  also  at  a  stake  without  the 

protection of the Suspect.  

3 | P a g e  

 
 
     
 
 
CA Bail 463-2024 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of the bail Application.  

1.  No  drugs  were  found  in  the  possession  of  the  Suspect  by  the 

police officers. 

2.  Absence  of  any  plausible  evidence  that  the  Suspect  had 

possessed methamphetamine.   

3.  The Petitioner had been in remand nearly one year. 

The  State  opposing  to  bail  submitted  that  the  large  quantities  of 

dangerous drugs found in the possession of the Suspect indicates that 

the  Suspect  is  a  drug  dealer  of  large  scale,  dealing  in  commercial 

quantities and not use quantities.  

The  Learned  State  Counsel  further  submitted  that  the  delay  is  not  an 

exceptional  circumstance  to  be  considered  to  enlarge  the  suspect  on 

bail.  

The  suspect  is  in  remand  for  nearly  about  one  year.  According  to 

Government  Analyst  Report,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine 

detected from the possession of the Suspect is 17.86 grams.  

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what 

is  exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.   

The  Section  83  of  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Act 

which was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this  section,  a  person  suspected  or  accused  of  an  offence  under 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 463-2024 

sections  54A  and  54B  of  this  Ordinance,  shall  not  be  released  on  bail 

by the High Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall  not  be  released  on  bail  except  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in 

exceptional circumstances. 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production  by  the  Government  Analyst  is  17.86  grams.  Hence,  this 

court  has  jurisdiction  to  consider  granting  of  bail  as  per  the  new 

amendment. 

I agree with the learned State Counsel that the factual and evidentiary 

matters pertain to the investigations can only be tested at the trial upon 

the witnesses being cross examined and shall not be tested at the time 

of hearing this bail application considering the nature of this case. 

Further,  I  do  not  consider  the  delay  nearly  about  one  year  in  remand 

falls into the category of excessive and oppressive delay considering the 

circumstances of this case. 

The  Offence  under  Section  54A(b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is a 

serious offence and the seriousness of the offence should be considered 

when bail is considered.  

In this case the pure Methamphetamine detected is 17.86 grams, which 

certainly  a  commercial  quantity.  Considering  the  seriousness  of  the 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 463-2024 

sentence  prescribed  under  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance, there is a high risk of absconding. 

At present the Government Analyst Report is received by the Court and 

the  Hon.  Attorney  General  will  call  for  the  investigation  notes  in  due 

course.  Hence,  it  is  prudent  to  send  out  the  indictment  against  the 

Suspect to the High Court without further delay and expedite the trial.      

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of  Heroin  detected,  the  charge  going  to  be  against  the  Suspect,  the 

suspicious conduct of the Suspect and other circumstances of the case, 

I consider this is not an appropriate case to grant bail to the Suspect at 

this stage. Hence, I refuse to release the Suspect on bail. 

Hence, the bail application is hereby dismissed. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  send  this  order  to  the 

Magistrate Court of  Colombo  and the  Officer-in-Charge, Police  Station, 

Mulleriyawa. 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
