CA Bail 0443-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

1. The Officer-in-Charge 

Application No.                          Police Station, 

CA Bail 0443/2024 

    Kekirawa. 

MC Kekirawa 

2. The Officer-in-Charge  

Case No: B 107/2024                Central Anti-Vice Striking Unit, 

     Walana, Panadura. 

COMPLAINANTS 

 Mallikage Sachith Eranga 

 (Presently in remand prison) 

SUSPECT       

                            AND NOW BETWEEN 

                                     Mallikage Ubayasiri 

No. 530, Thibbatuwewa, Kekirawa. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0443-2024 

 Vs. 

1.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Police Station, 

Kekirawa. 

2.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Central Anti-Vice Striking Unit, 

Walana, Panadura. 

3.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENTS 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Kasun 

Sarathchandra 

for 

the 

Petitioner.  

Oswald Perera, SC for the Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

01/04/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

22/05/2025. 

***************************** 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
                  
 
 
 
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
       
CA Bail 0443-2024 

        ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner is the father of the Suspect named in the Magistrate Court 

of Kekirawa bearing case No. B 107/2024.  

According  to  the  B  report  submitted,  on  11.01.2024,  the  Suspect  was 

arrested upon an investigation carried out consequent to a tip off received 

by the officers attached to the Police Central Anti-Vice Unit of Walana. As 

per the information the officers had gone to the Petitioner’s given address 

and arrested the Suspect and recovered a parcel of substance suspected 

to be Methamphetamine.  The gross quantity of the contraband recovered 

from the Suspect is weighed about 127.5. Upon further investigation the 

officers had recovered another parcel of Methamphetamine at a boutique 

owned  by  the  Suspect  and  the  contraband  weighed  about  10.8  grams. 

Further, 3 mobile phones, 4 ATM Cars, several money transaction cards 

and two identity cards had also been recovered from the Suspect.    

Upon  a  Court  order  the  contraband  had  been  sent  to  the  Government 

Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst Report dated 

31.05.2024, 51.19 grams and 4.56 grams of pure Methamphetamine had 

been  detected  in  the  parcels  sent  for  analysis.  The  total  weight  of  the 

Methamphetamine is 55.75 grams.         

The Suspect was produced in the Magistrate Court of Kekirawa and facts 

were reported under Section 54A (b) and (d) of the Poisons, Opium and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.Upon 

a Court order the Suspect was placed under a detention order to facilitate 

the Police to conduct further investigation with regard to the detection. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
   
 
 
CA Bail 0443-2024 

The  Petitioner  alleges  that  the  Suspect  was  taken  into  custody  by  the 

police  on  a  mere  conjecture  without  any  reasonable  suspicion.  The 

Petitioner  further  alleges  that  no  Methamphetamine  or  any  other 

contraband had been detected from the Suspect.  

The Petitioner submit that the Suspect had been in remand for little over 

16 months. Indictment has not been filed in the High Court. 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  Non-existence of a prima-facie case against the Suspect. 

2.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for little over 16 months. 

3.  The Suspect is a married person and the sole breadwinner of the 

family. At present the wife of the Suspect is receiving treatment for 

mental disorder due to the arrest of the Suspect.   

The State Counsel submits that the dossier of the investigation has not 

been received by the Attorney General’s Department due to the complex 

nature of the investigation in this case. 

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0443-2024 

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production by the Government Analyst is 55.75 grams. Hence, this court 

has jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Suspect in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

Although 16 months had been passed after his arrest, the trial before the 

High  Court  has  not  been  commenced.  Expeditious  trial  is  an  integral 

element of a fair trial.  

No previous or pending case reported against the Suspect. 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 0443-2024 

In  this  case  the  Accused  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that this is not appropriate case 

to  consider  the  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the 

investigations  at  this  stage.  It  can  only  be  tested  at  the  trial  upon  the 

witnesses being cross examined and re-examined.  

In  Ranil  Charuka  Kulatunga  v.  Attorney  General  CA  (PHC)  APN 

134/2015 the court held that: 

“The quantity of cocaine involved in this case is 62.847 grams, 

which is a commercial quantity. If Petitioner is convicted, the 

punishment  is  death  or  life  imprisonment.  Under  these 

circumstances, it is prudent to conclude the trial early while 

the Petitioner is kept in custody.” 

In  this  case  the  pure  Methamphetamine  detected  is  55.75  grams. 

Considering the seriousness of the sentence prescribed under the Poison, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance,  there  is  a  high  risk  of 

absconding. 

Further, the police are continuing their investigation with regard to the 

money and bank transactions of the Suspect using the recovered mobile 

phones, ATM cards, money transaction cards and the identity cards. As 

such the investigation is not over yet.   

Hence, I do not consider the delay little over 16 months in remand falls 

into  the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of  Methamphetamine  detected,  the  charges  going  to  be  framed  against 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0443-2024 

the  Suspect,  the  pending  investigation  and  other  circumstances  of  the 

case,  I  consider  this  is  not  an  appropriate  case  to  sanction  bail  to  the 

Suspect at this stage. Hence, I refuse to release the Suspect on bail. 

Hence, this Bail Application is dismissed. 

The Registrar of this Court is directed to this Bail Order to the Magistrate 

Court of Kekirawa and the Officer-in-Charge, Police Sation, Kekirawa and 

The  Officer-in-Charge,  Central  Anti-Vice  Striking  Unit,  Walana, 

Panadura. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
