IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 

SRI LANKA 

A  matter  of  an  application  under  and  in 

terms of Articles 154P (6) read with Article 

154P  (3)  and  138  of  the  Constitution  and 

the  High  Court  of  the  provinces  (Special 

Provisions0 Act No. 19 of 1990. 

CA/PHC/47/2021 

 Provincial High Court of Hambanthota  

Case No: 06/2021/RV                             Officer In Charge  

Special Crimes Investigation Bureau 

Tangalle 

V.  

Complainant 

Sanjeewa Pushpakumara samarasinghe 

“Jayabim”, No. 04, Sandagirigoda 

Thissamaharamaya’ 

Accused     

And Now between 

Sanjeewa Pushpakumara samarasinghe 

“Jayabim”, No. 04, Sandagirigoda 

Thissamaharamaya’ 

Accused- Petitioner      

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 
Vs.  

1.  Chaminda 

  Mangala  Kumara 

Munasinghe Dissanayake 

No. 03/09, Mulana 

Hungama 

Virtual- Complainant- Respondent  

2.  Officer-in- Charge  

Special Crimes Investigation Bureau 

Tangalle 

Complainant-respondent 

3.  The Attorney General 

     Attorney General’s Department 

     Colombo 12 

Respondent – Respondent 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Sanjeewa Pushpakumara samarasinghe 

“Jayabima”, No. 04, Sandagirigoda 

Thissamaharamaya’ 

Accused- Petitioner –Appellant  

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V.  

1.  Chaminda 

  Mangala  Kumara 

Munasinghe Dissanayake 

No. 03/09, Mulana 

Hungama 

Virtual- 

Complainant- 

Respondent- 

Respondent  

2.  Officer-in- Charge  

Special Crimes Investigation Bureau 

Tangalle 

Complainant-respondent- Respondent 

3.  The Attorney General 

     Attorney general’s Department 

     Colombo 12 

Respondent – Respondent- Respondent 

Page 3 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
Before :          B. Sasi Mahendran, J.         

                       Amal Ranaraja, J            

Counsel:          Udaya Bandara for the Accused- Petitioner- Appellant 

                        Maheshika Silva, DSG DSG for the Respondents   

 Argued On :     07.03.2025 

Order On:         04.04.2025 

B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

ORDER 

The  Accused-  Petitioner-  Appellant  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  Appellant) 

instituted this appeal seeking to set aside the judgment and the conviction of the 

Learned  Magistrate  of  Thissamaharama  dated  10.09.2018  and  the  order  of  the 

Provincial High Court of Hambantota dated 26.03.2021. 

According  to  the  Appellant,  the  1st  and  2nd  Respondents  instituted  an  action 

bearing  No.  11836  in  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Thissamaharama  on  19.10.2009 

leveling 3 charges against the Appellant punishable under Sections 403, 386, and 

389 of the Penal Code.  

The Appellant states that the prosecution called 4 witnesses, but the  Appellant 

could not call any because his Counsel namely Mr. Sunil R. de Silva was abroad 

without informing the Appellant. On 31.07.2017, the Appellant had to give a dock 

statement without any prior knowledge, consent, or awareness. After the trial, the 

Learned Magistrate by judgment dated 10.09.2018, convicted the Appellant on the 

1st charge and sentenced a fine of Rs. 1500/- with a default sentence of 3 months 

simple  imprisonment.  Additionally,  he  was  sentenced  to  one-year  rigorous 

imprisonment suspended for 10 years and a compensation of Rs. One million to be 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
paid  to  the  1st  Respondent  with  a  default  sentence  of  one-year  of  rigorous 

imprisonment. 

Being aggrieved by the said judgment of the Learned Magistrate, the Appellant 

appealed to the Provincial High Court of Hambantota on 20.12.2020 which was 

dismissed on the basis of delay.  

The  Appellant  states  that  thereafter,  the  Appellant  filed  a  revision  application 

bearing  No.  06/2021/RV  in  the  Southern  Provincial  High  Court  in  Hambantota 

seeking  to  set  aside  the  judgment  and  the  sentence  imposed  by  the  Magistrate 

Court  and  further  proceedings  of  the  said  Magistrate  Court  case  bearing  No. 

11836. 

The main ground urged by the Appellant in the said revision application was that 

the  Learned  Judges  have  failed  to  adopt  the  proceedings  in  accordance  with 

Section 48 of the Judicature Act No. 2 of 1978. Accordingly, the right to a fair trial 

was  denied  to  him.  Further,  the  Appellant  could  not  produce  the  original 

documents  which  were  with  his  Counsel  namely  Mr.  Sunil  R.  de  Silva  who 

appeared for the Appellant. Further, he has made the position that the Learned 

Magistrate  falsely  recorded  the  proceeding  dated  31.07.2017 that  the  Appellant 

informed that he wanted to make a dock statement. In fact, he did not know what 

a dock statement was as he had not received any legal advice regarding making a 

dock statement.  

The  Appellant  further  states  that  when  the  said  revision  application  was 

supported on 26.03.2021, the Learned Provincial High Court Judge dismissed the 

application on the basis that he had failed to show any exceptional circumstances.  

Being aggrieved by the said judgment, the Appellant preferred the present appeal 

in this Court on the basis that the said judgment of the Learned High Court Judge 

is unjust and contrary to law. Further, the Appellant contends that the Learned 

High Court Judge has failed to consider that there was a series of incidents that 

resulted in a miscarriage of justice which could have warranted the acceptance of 

the revision application.  

Page 5 of 7 

 
This Court has to consider whether the grounds urged by the Appellant warrant 

the Learned High Court Judge to invoke the revisionary jurisdiction. 

The first ground urged by the Appellant was the failure to adopt the proceedings 

by Learned Magistrates. 

By judgment, SC Appeal No: SC/APPEAL/139/2019 decided on 05.04.2024, as held 

by His Lordship Samayawardhena J that; 

“Section 48  does  not mandate  the  judge  to  formally  record  the  fact  of the 

adoption  of  proceedings.    Consequently,  the  failure  to  record  the  fact  of 

adoption  of  previous  proceedings  cannot  invalidate  or  vitiate  the 

proceedings, including the judgment.” 

Now it is the settled law that failure to adopt the proceedings can not invalidate 

the proceedings of a court of first instance. 

With  regard  to  the  second  ground,  our  Courts  have  held  that,  to  contradict  the 

record, which has taken place in the court of first instance should not be allowed 

in the appeal. It should be done before such court. This concept was considered by 

His Lordship Jayasuriya, J in Vannakar and 6 Others v. Uthumalebbe, 1996 (2) 

SLR 73 at page 75,: 

“Justice Dias in King vs. Jayawardene (1) has considered the earlier line of 

decisions laying down the cursus curiae with regard to the legality of filing 

convenient and self-serving affidavits in appeal to vary and contradict the 

record or with a view to purge a default which had taken place before the 

Court  of  first  instance.  After  a  review  of  these  decisions  he  held  that  no 

party  ought  to  be  permitted  to  file  a  belated  self-serving  and  convenient 

affidavit to contradict the record, to vary the record or to purge a default 

where  they  have  not  taken  proper  steps  to  file  such  affidavits  before  the 

Judge  or  President  of  the  Court  of  first  instance  or  tribunal  respectively. 

Vide 

also 

the 

judgment 

of 

Justice Canekeratne in Gunewardena v Kelaart. (2) If  a  party  had  taken 

such  steps  to  file  papers  before  the  presiding  officer  of  Court of  first 

instance,  then  an  inquiry  would  be  held  by  him  and  the  self-serving 

Page 6 of 7 

 
statements  and  averments  could  be  evaluated  after  cross-examination  of 

the affirmant when  he  gives  evidence  at  the  inquiry.  If  such  a  procedure 

was  adopted  the  Court  of  Appeal  would  have  the  benefit  of  the  recorded 

evidence which has been subjected to cross examination, and the benefit of 

the findings of the judge of the Court of first instance. When such procedure 

is not adopted, Justice Dias ruled that the Court of Appeal could not take 

into consideration self-serving and convenient averments in the affidavits 

to contradict and vary the record or to purge a default committed before the 

Court of first instance.” 

The above dictum was followed by His Lordship Sisira de Abrew J in Chaminda v. 

Republic of Sri Lanka (2009) 1 Sri LR 144 on page 148 and held that; 

“In  my  view  a  litigant  can’t  make  a  convenient  statement  in  court  and 

contradict  a  judicial  record.  In  this  regard  I  am  guided  by  the  following 

judicial  decisions.  OIC  Ampara  Police  Station  vs.  Bamunusinghe 

Arachchige Jayasinghe, Jayasuriya J remarked: “A litigant is not entitled 

to  impugn  a  judicial  record  by  making  a  convenient  statement before  the 

Court  of  Appeal.”  In Gunawardane vs. Kelart  Supreme  Court  held:  “The 

Supreme Court will not admit affidavits which seek to contradict the record 

kept by the Magistrate.” 

On this basis, we are unable to consider the veracity of the Appellant’s version. 

For the above-mentioned reasons, we dismiss the application with state costs of 

Rs. 20,000/-. 

Amal Ranaraja, J.  

I AGREE 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 7 of 7 

 
 
 
