CA Bail 0343-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for bail in 

terms  of  the  Section  83  of  the  Poisons, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance 

as amended by the Act No.41 of 2022.  

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Application No.                      Police Station, 

CA Bail 0343/2024 

Kumbukgate. 

MC Kurunegala 

                   COMPLAINANT 

Case No: B 4450/2023  

Vs. 

Herath Mudiyanselage Harsha 

Maduwantha Herath 

(Presently in remand prison) 

                            AND NOW BETWEEN 

SUSPECT       

Gamalath Ralalage Pradeepika 

Sanjeewani 

No. 799, Thiththawella, 

Kumbukwewa. 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
CA Bail 0343-2024 

Vs. 

1.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Police Station, 

Kumbukgate. 

2.  The Attorney General  

Attorney General’s Department, 

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENTS 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

Punarji  Karunasekara  instructed  by 

Isuru Jayawardena for the Petitioner.  

Tharaka  Kodagoda,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

27/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

20/05/2025. 

***************************** 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
  
                  
 
 
 
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                                                                        
         
CA Bail 0343-2024 

ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The  Petitioner  is  the  mother  of  the  Suspect  named  in  the  Magistrate 

Court of Kurunegala bearing case No. B 4450/2023.  

According to the B report submitted, the Suspect was arrested upon an 

investigation carried out consequent to a tip off received by the officers 

attached  to  the  Special  Task  Force,  Kurunegala  Camp.  As  per  the 

information the officers had gone to a house in the Kumbukwewa area 

and  the  Suspect  was  search  inside  the  house.  A  parcel  with  some 

substance was recovered from the Suspect. As the substance recovered 

reacted  for  Methamphetamine,  he  was  arrested  and  hand  over  to  the 

Kumbukgate Police for further investigation.  The gross quantity of the 

contraband recovered from the Suspect is weighed about 24.650 grams.  

Rs.9000/- also recovered from the Suspect. 

Upon  a  Court  order  the  contraband  had  been  sent  to  the  Government 

Analyst Department and according the Government Analyst Report dated 

12.03.2024, 13.80 grams of pure Methamphetamine had been detected 

in the parcel sent for analysis.         

The  Suspect  was  produced  in  the  Magistrate  Court  of  Kurunegala  and 

facts were reported under Section 54A (b) and (d) of the Poisons, Opium 

and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance  as  amended  by  the  Act  No.13  of 

1984.Upon a Court order the Suspect was placed under a detention order 

to facilitate the Kumbukgate Police to conduct further investigation with 

regard to the detection. 

The  Petitioner  alleges  that  the  Suspect  was  taken  into  custody  by  the 

police  on  a  mere  conjecture  without  any  reasonable  suspicion.  The 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0343-2024 

Petitioner  further  alleges  that  no  Methamphetamine  or  any  other 

contraband had been detected from the Suspect.  

The Petitioner submit that the Suspect had been in remand for little over 

17 months. Indictment has not been filed in the High Court. 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of this Bail Application.  

1.  Non-existence of a prima-facie case against the Suspect. 

2.  The Suspect has been in remand custody for little over 17 months. 

3.  The  Suspect is unmarried  and his sister is sitting for the G.C.E. 

Advance Level Examination at the end of year 2024. 

The State Counsel submits that the dossier of the investigation has been 

received by the Attorney General’s Department and registered under AG 

reference No. CR3/344/2024 and the indictment will be sent to the High 

Court very soon.  

The  exceptional  circumstances  are  not  defined  in  the  statute.  Hence, 

what is exceptional circumstances must be considered on its own facts 

and circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.  

4 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 0343-2024 

The Section 83 of the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Act which 

was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this section, a person suspected or accused of an offence under sections 

54A and 54B of this Ordinance, shall not be released on bail by the High 

Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall not be released on bail except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional 

circumstances. 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production by the Government Analyst is 13.80 grams. Hence, this court 

has jurisdiction to consider granting of bail as per the new amendment. 

The  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submits  that  undue  and  long  delay  in 

keeping the Suspect in remand custody is a clear violation of his human 

rights and is against the presumption of innocence guaranteed under the 

Article 13(5) of the Constitution.  

Although 17 months had been passed after her arrest, the trial before the 

High  Court  has  not  been  commenced.  Expeditious  trial  is  an  integral 

element of a fair trial.  

The  Suspect  had  committed  similar  offences  five  times  before  he  was 

arrested for this offence. He has four previous convictions for possession 

of  Cannabis  Sativa  L.  Further  he  has  one  previous  conviction  for 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0343-2024 

trafficking Methamphetamine. In all the cases he was imposed fined by 

the Court.  He has no pending case in any of the court.  

The  learned  State  Counsel  very  correctly  submitted  that  the  Petitioner 

had not come before this Court with clean hands, as she suppressed the 

information  regarding  the  previous  convictions  reported  against  the 

Suspect. 

In  this  case  the  Suspect  alleged  to  have  committed  Offences  under 

Section  54A(b)  and  (d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs 

Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that this is not appropriate case 

to  consider  the  factual  and  evidentiary  matters  pertain  to  the 

investigations  at  this  stage.  It  can  only  be  tested  at  the  trial  upon  the 

witnesses being cross examined and re-examined.  

In  this  case  the  pure  Methamphetamine  detected  is  13.80  grams. 

Considering the seriousness of the sentence prescribed under the Poison, 

Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance,  there  is  a  high  risk  of 

absconding. Further, the Suspect has committed these offences when he 

has  five  previous  convictions  related  to  possession  and  trafficking  of 

drugs.  This  is  a  clear  testament  of  his  propensity  in  committing  drug 

related offences.   

Hence, I do not consider the delay little over 17 months in remand falls 

into  the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case. 

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of  Methamphetamine  detected,  the  charges  going  to  be  framed  against 

the  Suspect,  the  previous  convictions  reported  against  him  and  other 

circumstances of the case, I consider this is not an appropriate case to 

sanction bail to the Suspect at this stage. Hence, I refuse to release the 

Suspect on bail. 

Hence, this Bail Application is dismissed. 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 0343-2024 

The Registrar of this Court is directed to this Bail Order to the Magistrate 

Court  of  Kurunegala  and  Officer-in-Charge  of  the  Police  Station, 

Kumbukgate. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
