IN THE COURT OF APPEL OF THE DEMOCTRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 

SRI LANKA 

CA Case NO: 

CA/COC/05/025    

In the matter of an application for a ruling 

of contempt of court under and in terms of 

the  contempt  of  court,  Tribunal  or 

Institution Act No. 8 of 2004 read together 

with Article 105 (3) of the Constitution of 

the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 

Lanka.  

1.  Dulshan Senasinghe 

No. 37/F, Balanagala Road 

Katugasthota. 

2.  Dinuka lashanthi Henrcus 

 No. 37/F, Balanagala Road 

Katugasthota. 

Petitioners  

V.  

1. Pathadunbara Praeshiya Sabha 

     Pitiyegedara 

     Wattegama 

2. 

 Horanage 

Inoka  Manudarshani   

Kulathunga 

Secretary 

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
                                   
Pathadumbara Pradeshiy Sabha 

Pitiyegedara 

Wattegama. 

Respondents  

Before :              B. Sasi Mahendran, J.         

                           Amal Ranaraja, J            

Counsel:              Petitioners are represented by learned Counsel     

Supported On:    24.03.2025 

Order On:          30.04.2025 

B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

ORDER 

This is an application made in terms of Section 3(1) (a) and /or 3(2)(b) and Section 

14(a) of the Contempt of Court, Tribunal or Institution Act, No. 8 of 2024 read 

together with Article 105 (3) of the Constitution.  

The Petitioners instituted this action by petition dated 18.03.2025 seeking inter 

alia to issue a Rule on the Respondents under the form marked ‘A’ and to charge 

the  Respondents  for  willful  breach  of  the  undertaking  given  to  this  Court  on 

10.02.2025 in the case bearing No. CA/WRIT/729/2024.  

The Petitioners state that the Petitioners instituted an action before this Court in 

case  bearing  No.  CA/WRIT/729/2024  on  or  around  12.11.2024  challenging inter 

alia, the 1st Respondent-Accused’s attempt to demolish a construction (Gate) of the 

Petitioners.  Further,  the  Petitioners  state  that  they  canvassed  in  the  said  case 

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
                      
 
that  the  1st  Respondent-Accused’s  actions  in  terms  of  the  Urban  Development 

Authority Law No. 41 of 1978 as amended were unfair, ultra vires, and arbitrary.  

Further,  the  Petitioners  aver  that  they  further  sought  to  stay  an  action  for 

demolition instituted by the Respondents in the Magistrates Court of Teldeniya 

under  case  bearing  No.  87747/24.  As  stated  by  the  Petitioners,  the  case  was 

supported  on  18.12.2024  and  was  re-fixed  the  matter  was  to  be  resumed  for 

support on 10.02.2025 and parties were permitted to file Limited Statements of 

Objection  and  Limited  Counter  Affidavits.  The  Petitioners  state  that  the 

Respondents in CA/WRIT/729/2024 filed Limited Statements of Objection.  

On 10.02.2025, when the matter was resumed, the Respondents stated that the 

Counter Affidavit of the Petitioners had only been received ‘only two days back’, 

agitating an insufficiency of time for the perusal of the said documents. Further, 

the Respondents provided an undertaking which is as follows; 

“With greatest respect my lord, since the case filed in the Magistrate Court 

of  Teldeniya  case  bearing  No.87747/2024  is  coming  up  on  the  19th  of 

February for the Written Submissions and since this matter is postponed 

for a subsequent date, I give an undertaking that on the next date of hearing 

in the Magistrate Court, the matter postpones to a subsequent date.” 

The  Petitioners  state  that  contrary  to  the  said  undertaking  dated  10.02.2025, 

when the related matter was taken up before the Magistrates Court of Teldeniya 

on 19.02.2025 for written submissions, the Respondents have deliberately failed 

and/or refused to seek a postponement of the matter to a subsequent date and in 

fact they filed their Written Submissions on the said day in the Magistrates Court 

of Teldeniya.  

The Petitioners further state that when the Counsel for the Petitioners read out 

loud the said undertaking in open court before the Magistrates Court of Teldeniya 

on 19.02.2025, the Counsel for the Respondents refused to acknowledge the said 

undertaking and proceeded to file their written submissions. 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 The  main  contention  of  the  Petitioners  is  that  the  willful  breach  of  the  said 

undertaking  by  the  Respondents  causes  disrespect  to  this  Court  and  grave 

prejudice to the judicial process and amounts to contempt. 

In  this  context,  it  is  pertinent  to  consider  whether  the  Respondents  had  the 

requisite mens rea as contended by the Petitioners that the Respondents willfully 

breached the said undertaking. 

Our  Courts  have  focused  that  the  element  of  mens rea  is  required  to 

establish the offence of contempt of court. In other words, whether the act 

is done willfully. 

The  question  that  needs  to  be  answered  thus  is  what  does  the  word 

‘willful’ mean.   

Black Law Dictionary, Eighth Edition at page 1916 

“willful, 

adj. Voluntary and intentional, but not necessarily malicious. - Sometimes 

spelled wilful. Cf. WAN- TON. - willfulness,  

"The word 'wilful' or 'wilfully' when used in the definition of a crime, it has 

been  said  time  and  again,  means  only  intentionally  or  purposely  as 

distinguished  from  accidentally  or  negligently  and  does  not  require  any 

actual impropriety; while on the other hand it has been stated with equal 

repetition and insistence that the requirement added by such a word is not 

satisfied unless there is a bad purpose or evil intent." Rollin M. Perkins & 

Ronald N. Bovce, Criminal Law 875-76 (3d ed. 1982).  

"Almost all of the cases under [Bankruptcy Code § 523(a) (6)] deal with the 

definition  of  the  two  words  'willful*  and  'malicious.'  Initially  one  might 

think that willful and malicious mean the same thing. If they did, Congress 

should have used one word and not both. Most courts feel compelled to find 

some  different  meaning  for  each  of  them."  David  G.  Epstein  et  al., 

Bankruptcy § 7-30, at 531 (1993).” 

Page 4 of 6 

 
The  concept  of  willfulness  is  elaborated  by  Her  Ladyship  Justice  Shiranee 

Tilkawardena in Croos and Another v. Dabrera, (Supra);  

“It  is  also  necessary  to  consider  the  mens  rea  pertaining  to  this 

charge.  Under  Rule  31  of  the  Old  English  Rules  of  the  Supreme 

Court, an act of disobedience would become an act of contempt only 

if it was "Wilful". "Wilful" was taken to mean that while, where the 

terms  of  an  injunction  were  broken  it  was  not  necessary  to  show 

that the person was intentionally contumacious or that he intended 

to interfere with the administration of justice, yet where the failure 

or  refusal  to  obey  the  order  of  court  was  casual  or  accidental  and 

unintentional, it will "not be met by the full rigours of the law".  

His Lordship Justice Jameel in Dayawathie and Peiris v. Dr. S.D. M. Fernando 

and  Others,  1988  2  SLR  314,  has  considered  how  the  concept  of  willfulness  is 

interpreted in other jurisdictions. 

“Per Lord Russel of Killowen C.J. in R. vs. Senior.  

" ‘Wilfully’ means that the act is done intentionally and deliberately and not 

by accident. or inadvertence, but so that the mind of the person who does 

the act goes with it." 

In the instant application, the main allegation made by the Petitioners is that the 

Respondents willfully breached the undertaking made to this Court. This Court is 

of  the  opinion  that  there  is  no  dispute  that  the  Respondents  have  made  an 

undertaking to the effect that they will not file written submissions. Nevertheless, 

this  Court  notes  that  there  is  no  stay  order  issued  by  this  Court  against 

proceedings in the Magistrates Court of Teldeniya.  

We  are  mindful  that  the  proceedings  are  controlled  by  the  Courts.  Unless  the 

superior courts direct otherwise, the litigants have no say or control with regard 

to the proceedings of the Court. We are also mindful that the Learned Magistrate 

has directed the parties to file written submissions on 19.02.2025 (This Court is 

not  aware  whether  this  is  the  last  date  given  by  the  Court  to  file  written 

Page 5 of 6 

 
submissions). However, the litigants have no discretion in such a direction, i.e. to 

file written submissions or not unless a superior court directs otherwise. Whether 

the Respondent has given an undertaking or not, the discretion is always with the 

Courts to control the proceedings.  

In  such  a  circumstance,  the  question  is  whether  the  direction  of  the  Courts 

supersedes the undertaking made by one of the parties to the Court. 

We are of the view that when a party makes an undertaking, the Courts have the 

discretion to direct such a party to act contrary to such undertaking.  Therefore, 

despite the Respondents’ undertaking of not filing written submissions, filing in 

the Magistrate Court of Teldeniya in my opinion does not amount to contempt of 

Court. The reason is that this Court is not aware whether that was the last date 

given by the Court to file written submissions.  

Thus, we are mindful that the Petitioners have failed to prove that by filing the 

written  submissions  the  Respondents  have  willfully  breached  the  undertaking 

made to Court. I reiterate that there is no order issued by the Courts to stay the 

proceeding  in  the  Magistrates  Court  of  Theldeniya.  If  the  Petitioners  were 

interested  or  diligent,  they  could  have  asked  the  Court  to  issue  a  stay  to  the 

proceedings in the Magistrates Court case.  

For the aforesaid reasons, this Court is not inclined to grant the reliefs prayed by 

the Petitioners. 

Application dismissed. 

Amal Ranaraja, J.  

I AGREE 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
