IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an Application for Revision 
and/or  Restitutio  in  Integrum  under  and  in 
terms of Article 138 of the Constitution of the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka 
against  an  order  of  learned  Judge  of  High 
Court  of  Civil  Appeal  of  Western  Province 
in  Kalutara  case  bearing  No. 
Holden 
WP/HCCA/KALU/90/2016(F) 
dated 
30.11.2023, and the Judgement of the District 
Court of Kalutara dated 27.01.2009. 

1.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Azahim of  
No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

                              2.   Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Afan of  

CA Case No: RII/04/2024  
WP/HCCA/KALU/F Appeal 
No. 90/2016(F) 
DC Kalutara Case No. 7915/P 

  No.35/1, Sachia Road, Darga Town.                           

        Plaintiffs 

Vs. 

1.  Mohomed Hanifa Siththi Fathima of No. 361, 

Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

2.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Nazeb of  

No. 143, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 
3.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Noufer of  
No. 360, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 
4.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Siddik of  

No. 40, Church Road, Gorakana, Keselwatta. 

5.  Mohomed Hanifa Siththi Suveima of  

No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

6.  Mohomed Hanifa Fathima Nasrura of  

No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

Defendants 

Page 1 of 8 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
             
 
 
 
      
AND BETWEEN 

1.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Azahim of  
No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

2.    Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Afan of  

 No. 35/1, Sachia Road, Darga Town.    

           Plaintiffs- Appellants 

Vs. 

1.  Mohomed Hanifa Siththi Fathima of  

No. 361, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

2.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Nazeb of  

No. 143, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 
3.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Noufer of  
No. 360, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 
4.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Siddik of  

No. 40, Church Road, Gorakana, Keselwatta. 

5.  Mohomed Hanifa Siththi Suveima of  

No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

6.  Mohomed Hanifa Fathima Nasrura of  

No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

    Defendants- Respondents 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

1.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Azahim of  
No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

   1st Plaintiff- Appellant-Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Mohomed Hanifa Siththi Fathima of No. 361, 

Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

Page 2 of 8 

 
 
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
            
 
2.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Nazeb of  

No. 143, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 
3.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Noufer of  
No. 360, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 
4.  Mohomed Hanifa Mohomed Siddik of  

No. 40, Church Road, Gorakana, Keselwatta. 

5.  Mohomed Hanifa Siththi Suveima of  

No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

6.  Mohomed Hanifa Fathima Nasrura of  

No. 362, Matugama Road, Darga Town. 

     Defendants-Respondents- Respondents 

Before:  

    R. Gurusinghe J.   

  &  

M.C.B.S. Morais J. 

Counsel:  

J.M.  Wijebandara  with  Dimithri  Pandiwita  instructed  by             
Mr. Milindu Sarathchandra for the Petitioner. 

M.  Nizam  Kariapper,  PC  with  Chathurika  Perera  instructed  by 
the  4th  Defendant-Respondent- 
Mr.  M.I.M.  Iynullah  for 
Respondent.  

Written Submissions:              By the Plaintiff-Appellant- Petitioner  –  on 28.02.2025 

                                                   By the 4th Defendant-Respondent- Respondent – 05.02.2025 

Argued on:                               16.12.2024 

Decided On:                             15.05.2025  

Page 3 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDER 

M.C.B.S. Morais J. 

This is an application for revision and / or restitutio integrum under and in terms of Article 138 of 

the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The 1st Plaintiff-Appellant-

Petitioner (herein after sometimes will be referred to as the  Appellant) is challenging the order 

dated 30th of November 2023 made by the learned Judge of High Court of Civil Appeal of Western 

Province Holden in Kalutara and the judgement dated 08th of March 2016 delivered by the learned 

District Court of Kalutara.  

Although the caption mentions the learned District Court Judge has delivered the judgment on 27th 

January 2009, the judgment of the learned District Court Judge of Kalutara was in fact delivered 

on 8th March 2016. Accordingly, the Appellant has prayed for the following. 

I. 

II. 

“ Issue notice to the Defendants-Respondents-Respondent at the first instance, 

 Revise and set aside the judgment of High Court of Civil Appeal of Kalutara dated 

30.11.2023  (X12),  and  the  judgment  of  the  District  Court  of  Kaluthara  dated 

08/03/2016(X7) 

III. 

To restore the rights of the parties prior to  purported documents  marked as "er 

6"/81 which on the face of it appears as a deed of gift bearing number 6943 dated 

05-06-1993 attested by A.C.M.A. Mashood Notary Public, 

IV. 

Enters the judgment as prayed for in the plaint of the District Court of Kalutara 

dated 25.10.2010, 

OR 

V. 

 In the alternative to the above (d) direct a trial-de-novo allowing parties to raise 

actual point of contest arising out of the dispute, 

VI.  Call for the record of the District Court case bearing No.DC/Kalutara/7915/P. 

VII. 

Issue  an  interim  order  staying  the  further  proceedings  of  the  District  Court  of 

Kalutara case bearing No.7915/P until the final determination of this application, 

Page 4 of 8 

 
 
 
 
VIII.  Call 

for 

the  record  of 

the  High  Court  of  Civil  appeals  case  No: 

WP/HCCA/Kalu/90/2016(F), 

IX.  Grant costs, 

X. 

Any other and further relief that Your Lordships' Court may seem meet.” 

The Appellants have  instituted a Partition action against the above  six Defendants  who are the 

sisters and brothers of the same family. It is the Appellants’ position that the original owners of 

the corpus were Rahuman Lebbe Mohomad Hanifa and Ummul Jemila who were husband and 

wife. All 8 parties to the action are children born out of the wedlock. Therefore, the Appellants 

have prayed for division  of the corpus according to  the shares described  in  Paragraph 5 of the 

Plaint. 

However, all six Respondents have made a joint statement of claim and disputed the schedule of 

shares set  out  in  the plaint.  Further, all six  Respondents  have taken up the position that the 4th 

Respondent should be declared as the sole owner of the said property. 

Although there were two Appellants, the 2nd Appellant was not in the country in most instances, 

hence the 1st Appellant has come forward representing both the Appellant’s interest. 

During  the  trial  it  was  revealed  that,  out  of  the  two  original  owners,  the  rights  of  the 

aforementioned Rahuman Lebbe Mahamadu Hanifa (the father of all 8 children) has transferred 

half of his share to one Yasawathi Padma Punchihewa by deed bearing No.11311. Further, the said 

Yasawathi Padma Punchihewa has transferred the said share in the name of the 4th Respondent. 

The  other  original  owner,  namely  Thambi  Marikkar  Ummul  Jemila  has  died  intestate,  and  her 

husband namely Rahuman Lebbe Mahamadu Hanifa and the two plaintiffs and the six Respondents 

have inherited that half of her shares. The Appellants states that they have inherited the shares 

together with the other Respondents. However, it is the Respondents claim that all intestate heirs 

got  together  and  gifted  their  rights  exclusively  to  the  4th  Respondent  by  Deed  of  gift  bearing 

No.6943 dated 5th of June 1993, attested by A.C.M.A. Mashood Notary Public. However, it is the 

contention  of  the  Appellants  that  the  aforesaid  deed  of  gift  No.6943  is  fraudulent  and  was  not 

accepted by the 4th Respondent and therefore invalid in law.  

Page 5 of 8 

 
 
Further, it is the Appellants stance that during the trial the official witness from the land registry 

has  given  evidence  enunciating  informal  interpolation,  discrepancies  and  the  absence  of  the 

attesting  witnesses  signature  in  the  deed  marked  as  ‘V1’.  However,  having  considered  the 

materials submitted, the learned District Court Judge has made the judgement dated 08th of March 

2016 in favor of the Respondent and has dismissed the plaint. 

Being aggrieved by the said order of the learned District Court Judge of Kalutara, the Appellants 

have appealed to the High Court of Civil appeal holden in Kalutara on the ground that the said 

judgement is contrary to law and the learned District Court Judge erred in law. 

Accordingly, on 30th of November 2023 the learned Judge of the High Court of the Civil Appeal 

holden in Kalutara dismissed the appeal of the Appellants and affirmed the judgment of the learned 

District Court Judge of Kalutara. Being aggrieved by the said order, the Appellants have made an 

application under Article 138 of the Constitution considering the exceptional circumstances of the 

case. 

Accordingly, the 4th Defendant-Respondent-Respondent (hereinafter sometimes will be referred 

to as the Respondent) has raised the following preliminary Objections. 

A.  “  Ex-facie  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  establish  the  existence  of  exceptional 

circumstances; 

B.  The purported Application of the Petitioner is ex-facie misconceived and/or bad in 

law; The Petitioner has failed to act with utmost promptitude and the Petitioner is 

guilty of blatant lack of due diligence, and of laches in instituting the above styled 

Application: 

C.  The  Petitioner  is  guilty of  willful  suppression  and  misrepresentation  of  material 

facts and documents;” 

It is the contention of the Respondent that the Appellants have failed to establish any exceptional 

circumstances  to  make  an  application  under  restitutio  in  integrum  or  revision  and  therefore  is 

contrary to law. Even though the Appellants contend the validity of the deed bearing No.6943, the 

burden is on the Appellant to prove what he asserts. 

Page 6 of 8 

 
 
 
Furthermore, it is apparent that in the case filed in the District Court of Kalutara the Appellants 

have refrained from disclosing that they have signed the impugned deed. This amounts to non-

disclosure of material facts, as their signature on the deed of gift bearing No. 6943 is undisputed.  

The basis of the Appellants’ contention is fraud. Therefore, in order to succeed in a restitutio in 

integrum or  revision  application,  the  Appellants  must  establish  that  the  Respondents  have 

committed fraud. The alleged fraud concerns the absence of the signature and the interpolation of 

the name of the second witness in some copies of the impugned deed of gift.  

The Respondent  claims that the absence of one witness in the deed bearing No. 6943 does not 

invalidate the deed according to Section 33 of the Notaries’ Ordinance. 

“33. Instruments not to be invalid for non-compliance in any matter of form. 

No instrument shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the failure of any notary to 

observe any provision of any rule set out in section 31 in respect of any matter of form: 

Provided  that  nothing  hereinbefore  contained  shall  be  deemed  to  give  validity  to  any 

instrument which may be invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of any 

other written law.” 

It is apparent that non-compliance of formal requirement does not invalidate the deed. Further, the 

Respondent  claims  that  the  acceptance  of  the  said  deed  was  done  by  a  cousin,  who  has  been 

authorized to accept such by the 4th Respondent on his behalf (as stated so in the said impugned 

deed itself). Considering that the impugned deed was executed in 1993 and the partition action 

was  filed  in  2010,  the  continuous  and  uninterrupted  possession  of  the  said  corpus  leads  to  an 

inference that the deed of donation was accepted. 

This has been established by Hutchinston CJ. in the case of   Senanayake v. Dissanayake (1908) 

12 NLR 1,  

 “ it is not essential that the acceptance of a deed of gift should appear on the face of it. 

but that such acceptance may be inferred from circumstances and that possession by the 

Page 7 of 8 

 
 
 
donee of the property donated leads to the inevitable inference that the deed of donation 

was accepted.” 

In any event the situation might have been different if the Appellants had gone to the District Court 

on the basis of a declaration of nullity. However, they have elected to file a partition action on the 

basis that the impugned deed is fraudulent, which is yet to be proven. 

When  considering  the  preliminary  objections  raised  by  the  Respondent,  it  is  apparent  that  the 

Appellants could have appealed against the impugned judgment of the High Court of Civil Appeal 

holden in Kalutara. For reasons best known to the Appellants, they have failed to do so, and no 

reason for this failure has been provided. Had the  Appellants filed an appeal, the merits of the 

judgment  made  by  both  the  learned  District  Court  Judge  and  the  learned  Judge  of  the  Civil 

Appellate  High  Court  would  have  been  considered.  However,  since  this  is  an  application 

for restitutio in integrum or revision, it is mandatory for the Appellants to establish exceptional 

circumstances such as fraud or other valid grounds to invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction, which 

the Appellant has failed to do. 

In light of such, and when considering together with the entirety of the materials before us, it is 

my view that the extraordinary jurisdiction vested in this Court by Article 138 need not be invoked, 

as there are no exceptional circumstances or reasonable grounds warranting such an invocation.  

Accordingly,  the  said  preliminary  objection  is  upheld,  and  the  application  of  the  Appellants  is 

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 50,000.00 payable to the 4th Respondent by the Appellants. 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

R. Gurusinghe J.   

I agree 

Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Page 8 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
