CA Bail 475-2024 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In  the  matter  of  an  application  for  Bail 

made  under  and  in  terms  of  the  Section 

83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance amended by 

Act No.41 of 2022. 

Court of Appeal   

The Officer-in-Charge 

Bail Application No: 

          Police Station   

CA Bail 0475/2024 

Vavuniya. 

COMPLAINANAT                          

Vs 

MC Vavuniya 

Pushparasa Thangeswaran 

Case No. B 376/2024    

5th Lane, Santhasolai, 

Vavuniya.    

  (Presently in remand prison, Vavuniya) 

SUSPECT 

 AND NOW  

Pushparasa Nagammah 

5th Lane, Santhasolai, 

Vavuniya. 

Vs 

PETITIONER 

1 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 475-2024 

1.  The Officer-in-Charge 

Police Station  

        Vavuniya. 

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT 

2.  The Attorney General 

Attorney General’s Department,          

Colombo-12. 

RESPONDENT 

Pushparasa Thangeswaran 

5th Lane, Santhasolai, 

Vavuniya.    

  (Presently in remand prison, Vavuniya)

SUSPECT 

BEFORE 

: 

P. Kumararatnam, J.  

K.M.S.Dissanayake, J. 

COUNSEL                    : 

K.Kugaraja for the Petitioner.  

Tharaka  Kodagoda,  SC 

for 

the 

Respondents. 

ARGUED ON 

:  

20/03/2025.  

DECIDED ON 

:   

30/04/2025. 

***************************** 

2 | P a g e  

 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
CA Bail 475-2024 

ORDER 

P.Kumararatnam,J. 

The Petitioner who is the mother of the Suspect named in MC Vavuniya 

Case  No.  B  376/2024  had  applied  for  bail  in  terms  of  Section  83(2)  of 

the  Poisons,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Ordinance  as  amended  by 

the Amendment Act No 41 of 2022. 

On  18.02.2024,  the  Suspect  was  arrested  in  Vavuniya  by  officers 

attached  to  the  Police  Station,  Vavuniya.  The  Suspect  was  arrested  in 

front  of  a  house.  When  he  was  checked  a  parcel  contained  some 

substances  which  reacted  for  Methamphetamine  was  recovered  from 

underneath  of  his  underwear.  The  substance  recovered  from  the 

Suspect weighed about 80 grams.   

The  Suspect  was  produced  and  facts  were  reported  to  the  Vavuniya 

Magistrate under Section 54A (b) and (d) and of the Poisons, Opium and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 and 

a detention order was obtained for further investigations under Section 

82(3) of the said Act. 

The  production  had  been  sent  to  the  Government  Analyst  Department 

on 06/03/2024. After analysis, the Government Analyst had forwarded 

the  report  to  Court  on  30/09/2024.  According  to  the  Government 

Analyst,  20.22  grams  of  pure  Methamphetamine  had  been  detected 

from the substance sent for the analysis.       

The  Suspect  is  unmarried  and  looks  after  the  Petitioner.  He  has  been 

incarcerated for nearly about 14 months. 

3 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
CA Bail 475-2024 

The Petitioner has pleaded following exceptional circumstances in 

support of her Bail Application.  

1.  No  drugs  were  found  in  his  possession  of  the  Suspect  by  the 

police officers. 

2.  Although  the  Government  analyst  report  is  received,  indictment 

has not been preferred against the Suspect.  

3.  The Suspect is languishing in remand without having a prospect 

of a trial. 

4.  Presumption of innocence. 

5.  Sole breadwinner of the family.   

The State opposing to bail submitted that when the police checked the 

Suspect  the  contraband  was  recovered  by  the  police  from  the 

possession  of  the  Suspect.  The  Learned  State  Counsel 

further 

submitted  that  the  delay  is  not  an  exceptional  circumstance  to  be 

considered to enlarge the suspect on bail.  

The  Suspect  is  in  remand  for  nearly  about  14  months.  According  to 

Government  Analyst  Report,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine 

detected from the possession of the Suspect is 20.22 grams.  

Exceptional circumstances are not defined in the statute. Hence, what 

is  exceptional  circumstances  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and 

circumstances on a case by case. 

In  Ramu  Thamodarampillai  v.  The  Attorney  General  [2004]  3  SLR 

180 the court held that: 

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and 

circumstances”.   

The  Section  83  of  the  Poison,  Opium  and  Dangerous  Drugs  Act 

which was amended by Act No. 41 of 2022 states: 

 83. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 84, 85 and subsection (2) of 

this  section,  a  person  suspected  or  accused  of  an  offence  under 

4 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 475-2024 

sections  54A  and  54B  of  this  Ordinance,  shall  not  be  released  on  bail 

by the High Court except in exceptional circumstances.  

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sections  84  and  85,  a  person 

suspected or accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A 

and section 54B- 

(a)  of  which  the  pure  quantity  of  the  dangerous  drug,  trafficked, 

imported, exported, or possessed is ten grammes or above in terms 

of the report issued by the Government Analyst under section 77A; 

and 

(b) which is punishable with death or life imprisonment,  

shall  not  be  released  on  bail  except  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in 

exceptional circumstances. 

In  this  case,  the  pure  quantity  of  Methamphetamine  detected  in  the 

production  by  the  Government  Analyst  is  20.22  grams.  Hence,  this 

Court  has  jurisdiction  to  consider  granting  of  bail  as  per  the  new 

amendment. 

The  Learned  Counsel  for  the  Petitioner  submitted  that  the  Suspect 

vehemently  denies  all  allegations  made  against  him.  The  Suspect  had 

taken  the  position  that  he  never  involved  in  drug  trafficking  or  in 

possession as alleged by the police.  

I agree with the learned State Counsel that the factual and evidentiary 

matters pertain to the investigations can only be tested at the trial upon 

the witnesses being cross examined and shall not be tested at the time 

of hearing this bail application considering the nature of this case. 

The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner urged this Court to consider that 

detaining  a  suspect  without  any  legal  action  for  an  extended  period  of 

time  amounts  to  a  violation  of  his  fundamental  rights  which  can  be 

considered as an exceptional ground. 

5 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 475-2024 

The  Government  Analyst  Report  pertaining  to  this  case  has  been 

received by the Magistrate Court of Vavuniya on 30.09.2024. Although 

06 months passed after receiving the Government Analyst Report by the 

Court, the State has failed forward indictment against the Petitioner. 

The  learned  State  Counsel  informs  this  Court  that  the  investigation 

notes  pertain  to  this  case  has  been  received  by  the  Attorney  General 

on16.01.2025. But up to now no indictment has been forwarded to the 

High Court.   

In  Nasher  v.  Director  of  Public  Prosecution  [2020]  VSCA  144  the 

court held that: 

“a  combination  of  delay,  onerous  custodial  conditions,  and  the 

relative  weakness  of  the  prosecution  case  may,  when  considered 

with  all  relevant  circumstances,  compel 

the  conclusion 

that 

exceptional circumstances have been established”. [Emphasis added] 

The  right  to  trial  without  undue  delay  is  found  in  numerous 

international and regional human rights instruments; for example, the 

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Article 14(3)(c), the 

American  Convention  on  Human  Rights  (Article  8(1),  the  African 

Charter  on  Human  and  People’s  Rights  (Article  7(1)(d),  and  the 

European  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  Human  Rights  and 

Fundamental Freedoms (Article 6(1).    

When a person is kept in remand without taking his or her case for trial 

for a considerable period of time, he or  she should be released on bail 

pending trial. Otherwise, this will lead not only to prison overcrowding 

but  also  violates  his  or  her  fundamental  rights  which  have  been 

guaranteed under the Constitution. 

Hence, I consider the delay nearly about 14 months in remand falls into 

the  category  of  excessive  and  oppressive  delay  considering  the 

circumstances of this case.  Hence, considering all the circumstances of 

6 | P a g e  

 
 
 
CA Bail 475-2024 

this  case,  the  Suspect  has  very  good  exceptional  circumstances  to 

consider  this  application  in  his  favour.  Further,  remanding  a  suspect 

without commencing his or her trial will prejudice his or her rights and 

family as well. 

Offences  under  Section  54A(b)  and  54A(d)  of  the  Poisons  Opium  and 

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by the Act No.13 of 1984 is no 

doubt serious offences but seriousness of the offence alone cannot form 

a  ground  to  refuse  bail.  In  considering  these  matters,  the  court  must 

bear in mind the presumption of innocence. 

Further, bail should never be withheld as punishment. Granting of bail 

is  primarily  at  the  discretion  of  the  Courts.  The  discretion  should  be 

exercised  with  due care  and  caution  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 

circumstances of each case.    

Considering all these factors into account, especially the pure quantity 

of Heroin detected, the period in remand and the circumstances of the 

case,  I  consider  this  an  appropriate  case  to  grant  bail  to  the  Suspect. 

Hence,  I  order  the  Suspect  be  granted  bail  with  following  strict 

conditions. 

1.  Cash bail of Rs.100,000/=.  

2.  To  provide  02  sureties.  They  must  sign  a  bond  of  two  million 

each. 

3.  The  Suspect  and  the  sureties  must  reside  in  the  address  given 

until conclusion of his case. 

4.  To surrender his passport if any, to court and not to apply for a 

travel  document.  The  Controller  of  the 

Immigration  and 

Emigration is informed of the travel ban on the Suspect. 

5.  To  report  to  the  Vavuniya  Police  Station  on  the  last  Sunday  of 

every month between 9am to 1pm. 

6.  Any  breach  of  these  conditions  is  likely  to  result  in  the 

cancellation of his bail. 

7 | P a g e  

 
 
CA Bail 475-2024 

The Bail Application is allowed and the Learned Magistrate of Vavuniya 

is  hereby  directed  to  enlarge  the  Suspect  on  bail  on  the  above  bail 

conditions. 

The  Registrar  of  this  Court  is  directed  to  this  order  to  the  Magistrate 

Court of Vavuniya and the Officer-in-Charge, Police Station, Vavuniya.    

K.M.S. Dissanayake, J.   

I agree. 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

8 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
