IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF SRI LANKA 

CA Application No. 
COC/04/25  

In the matter of Contempt of Court under and in 
terms  of  the  Contempt  of  a  Court,  Tribunal  or 
Institution  Act,  No.  8  of  2024  for  the  offence  of 
Contempt of Court of first instance, Section 183B 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  read  together  with 
Article 105(3) of the Constitution of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

A.K CABLE NETWORKS (PVT) LTD 
No. 21. Main Street, 
Periya Neelavani – 02, Kalmunai.  
Sri Lanka. 

COMPLAINANT 

Against  

VITHURSON VINCENDRAJAN 
No. 8/2, Rheinland Place, 
Colombo 03. 

RESPONDENT - ACCUSED 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before:        M. T. MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J. (President C/A)- Actg. 

K. P. FERNANDO, J.  

Counsel:  Nishan  Premathiratne  with  Sachini  Seneviratne,  Dilini  Jayatissa 
and Vikum Jayasinghe for the Complainant, instructed by Mr. M.I.M 
Ishar.  

Supported on:     19. 03. 2025                       

Decided on:         08. 05. 2025 

MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J. (President of The Court of Appeal- Actg). 

The  Complainant,  having  tendered  a  motion  and  an  affidavit,  has  instituted 
contempt of 
court proceedings against the Respondent Accused in terms of the provisions of 
the Contempt of Court, Tribunal or Institution Act No. 8 of 2024. 

We heard the learned Counsel for the Complainant in support of the motion and 
affidavit  on  19.03.2025.  The  contention  of  the  Complainant  is  that  the 
Respondent-  Accused,  in  a  case  filed  before  the  Commercial  High  Court  of 
Colombo  bearing  No.  CHC/28/2024/IP,  had  filed  a  false  affidavit,  wherein  he 
claimed  that  he  became  aware  of  the  existence  of  the  Complainant  company, 
namely AK Cable Network Private Limited, and its business operations only upon 
the institution of Case No. CA/WRT/328/2024, which was filed on 26.06.2024. 

However, the Complainant asserts that the document marked D16 establishes 
that the Respondent Accused was aware of the existence of the Complainant as 
far back as the year 2020. Thus, the filing of a false affidavit before Court, as 
alleged, amounts to an act of contempt of court. 

The matter is currently pending before the Commercial High Court. It is therefore 
incumbent  upon  the  Respondent  to  explain  the  reasons  for  making  the 
statements contained in the said affidavit before the Commercial High Court. It 
is for the learned Judge of the Commercial High Court to consider the facts and 
determine whether the affidavit in question is true or false. 

Until  such  time  as  the  Respondent  has  had  an  opportunity  to  present  his 
explanation  before  the  High  Court,  and  until  the  High  Court  has  made  a 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
determination on the veracity of the affidavit, this Court is not in a position to 
decide whether the impugned statement amounts to ex facie contempt of court. 
As such, the present application is premature. 

This Court is of the view that the Petitioner has failed to establish a prima facie 
case 
against  the  Respondent  to  warrant  the  issuance  of  a  rule  in  respect  of  the 
contempt 
proceedings. 

Accordingly, the motion and affidavit filed by the Complainant are dismissed. No 
costs. 

K.D. Fernando, J. 

I agree. 

President Court of Appeal (Actg)  

Judge of the court of appeal 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
