IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for Restitutio-In-
Integrum  and  Revision  under  and  in  terms  of 
Article  138  (1)  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  

Court of Appeal 
Case No: RII/0093/2024 

National Development Bank PLC, 
No. 40, Navam Mawatha, Colombo 02 

DC Colombo 
Case No: DSP/0203/18 

Vs. 

Petitioner 

Warnakulasuriya Chandima Prasad 
Rajitha Fernando, 
‘Sarani Aquarium’, 
No. 297, Kolinjadiya West, 
Wennappuwa 

Respondent 

And Now Between 

Warnakulasuriya Chandima Prasad 
Rajitha Fernando, 
‘Sarani Aquarium’, 
No. 297, Kolinjadiya West, 
Wennappuwa 

      Respondent-Petitioner 

Vs 

National Development Bank PLC, 
No. 40 Navam Mawatha, Colombo 02. 

     Petitioner-Respondent 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before : 

R. Gurusinghe J 

& 

M.C.B.S. Morais J 

Counsel : 

L.P.A. Chithranganie with Ama Jayaweera   
for the Petitioner 

Geethaka Gunawardena P.C. with Kushlan Seneviratne 
And Shane Lappen 
Instructed by Anusha Hewajulige 
for the Petitioner-Respondent 

Supported on  :  17-01-2025  

Decided on      : 

 06-03-2025 

R. Gurusinghe 

The  petitioner-respondent,  the  National  Development  Bank  (hereinafter 
sometimes referred to as the Bank), filed a case bearing no. DSP/203/18 in 
the District Court of Colombo, against the respondent-petitioner (hereinafter 
sometimes referred to as the petitioner) under the provisions of section 16 of 
the  Recovery  of  Loans  by  Bank  (special  provisions)  Act  No.  04  of  1990 
(hereinafter referred to as the Act) and under the provisions of Chapter XXIV 
of the Civil Procedure Code seeking inter alia;  

a)  For an order directing the respondent-petitioner for the delivery of the 
possession  of  the  property  described  in  the  schedule  to  the  petition 
filed before the District Court of Colombo by the bank. 

b)  To  enter  order  nisi  under  the  provisions  of  section  377A  of  the  Civil 
Procedure Code read together with the provisions of Act No. 4 of 1990. 

c)  That the order nisi be made absolute.  

The  respondent-petitioner  filed  objections  to  the  application  of  the  Bank 
before  the  District  Court.    After  an  inquiry,  the  Learned  Additional  District 
Judge  of  Colombo  made  the  order  nisi  absolute  on  25-11-2021.    Being 
aggrieved  by  that  order,  the  respondent-petitioner  appealed  to  the  Civil 
Appellate High Court of Colombo.  By judgment dated 12-09-2024, the Civil  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appellate  High  Court  of  Colombo  dismissed  the  respondent-petitioner’s 
appeal.   

The respondent-petitioner filed this application for Restitutio-in-Integrum and 
Revision  in  terms  of  Article  138  of  the  Constitution.    The  application  was 
supported on 17-01-2025 with notice to the respondent Bank. 

The main ground relied on by the respondent-petitioner is that the principal 
amount due is less than Rupees Five Million. According to Section 5A of the 
Act as amended by Act No. 1 of 2011 and Act No. 19 of 2011, if the principal 
amount of the loan is less than Rupees Five Million, the Bank has no right to 
initiate action in terms of Section 3, 4, or 5 of the Act. 

The  respondent-petitioner  admitted  that  he  had  obtained  a  Rupees  Fifteen 
Million  (Rs.  15,000,000/-)  loan  from  the  Bank.    The  above  argument  was 
based  on  two  letters  of  demand  issued  by  the  Bank  to  the  petitioner 
respondent  dated  26-02-2018.    Both  letters  of  demand  refer  to  a  loan  of 
Rupees Fifteen Million (Rs. 15,000,000/-).  In one letter of demand, the sum 
due  from  the  petitioner-respondent  was  mentioned  as  Rupees  Four  Million 
Four  Hundred  and  Sixty  Thousand  Seven  Hundred  and  Forty  and  Forty 
Three cents (Rs. 4,460,740.43).  The other letter of demand also refers to the 
loan of Rupees Fifteen Million (Rs. 15,000,000/-) granted to the respondent-
petitioner  and  the  principal  amount  mentioned  in  that  letter  was  Rupees 
Four Million Five Hundred and Sixty Nine Thousand Six Hundred and Fifty 
One and Forty cents (Rs 4,569,651.40).  

Counsel  for  the  petitioner  took  up  the  position  that  both  letters  of  demand 
referred  to  the  same  Rupees  Fifteen  Million  loan,  and  the  letter  of  demand 
referred  to  an  amount  due  as  less  than  Rupees  Five  Million,  the  Bank  was 
not entitled to proceed with the provisions of the Act.  However, Counsel for 
the  respondent  Bank  pointed  out  that  the  said  Rupees  Fifteen  Million  was 
disbursed to the respondent-petitioner in two tranches at his request.   

The  resolution  adopted  by  the  Bank  states  that  the  principal  amount  due 
from  the  respondent-petitioner  is  Rupees  Eight  Million  Four  Hundred  and 
Forty  Nine  Thousand  One  Hundred  and  Thirty  One  and  Ten  cents  (Rs. 
8,449,131.10).  The  aggregate  of  the  abovementioned  two  principal  amounts 
is  Rupees  Eight  Million  Four  Hundred  and  Forty  Nine  Thousand  One 
Hundred and Thirty and cents Fifty Six (Rs. 8,449,130.56), with a difference 
of  Fifty-Four  cents.  Furthermore,  the  respondent-petitioner  did  not  file  any 
document to show that he had repaid an amount out of that Rupees Fifteen 
Million  loan,  to  reduce  the  principal  amount  to  be  less  than  Rupees  Five 
Million.  The argument that the principal amount due to be paid to the Bank 
is less than Rupees Five Million cannot be accepted.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  next  ground  relied  on  by  the  respondent-petitioner  is  that  at  the  time 
the  transaction  was  made,  the  respondent  Bank  did  not  have  a  licence  or 
authority  to  act  under  the  provisions  of  Act  No.  4,  1990  because  the 
respondent  Bank  had  not  been  authorised  to  carry  on  banking  business  at 
Wennappuwa.      However,  the  bank  has  produced  a  copy  of  the  documents 
issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka authorising the  Bank to carry out 
banking business in Wennappuwa.  

The third ground relied on by the respondent-petitioner is that the bank had 
not informed the respondent-petitioner at the time of obtaining the loan that 
the bank would resort to the provisions of the Act.  The Act is one of the laws 
passed by the Parliament, and it is a part of the law of the land.  The Bank is 
entitled  to  resort  to  the  law  at  its  discretion.  The  law  is  presumed  to  be 
known by everybody. The bank is under no obligation to explicitly inform the 
respondent-petitioner of every possible legal recourse available to it.  

Another ground urged by the respondent-petitioner is that the property was 
bought  by  the  bank  manager  and  not  by  the  Bank  itself.  On  behalf  of  the 
bank, it was submitted that, as per the  schedule of the NDB Bank Act, the 
manager  of  a  branch  of  the  bank  is  expressly  authorised  to  buy  properties 
on behalf of the Bank.  

The Certificate of Sale No. 1472 specifically stated as follows; 

‘.............and  at  the  said  sale  the  said  PROPERTY  AND  PREMISES 
described  in  the  Schedule  hereto  was  purchased  by  HERATH 
MUDIYANSELAGE  GAYAN  SANJEEWA  PREMADASA 
(Branch 
Manager)  Wennappuwa  Branch  for  and  on  behalf  of  National 
Development  Bank  PLC,  No.40,  Nawam  Mawatha,  Colombo  02 
................’ 

The  certificate  of  sale  clearly  shows  that  the  branch  manager  of 
Wennappuwa branch of the  national Development Bank has  purchased the 
property mentioned in the schedule on behalf of the bank. 

In  the  District  Court,  the  Bank  applied  to  obtain  vacant  possession  of  the 
property  from  the  respondent-petitioner.  The  Bank  pointed  out  that  when 
the  resolution  was  sent  to  the  respondent-petitioner,  he  did  not  take  any 
action.  Thereafter,  the  auction  took  place.  However,  the  respondent-
petitioner took no steps. Now,  the bank seeks only to recover  possession of 
the property.   

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under  the  above  circumstances,  we  see  no  reason  to  issue formal  notice  to 
the  respondent  Bank.  The  notice  is  refused,  and  the  application  is 
dismissed. 

Judge of the Court of Appeal. 

M.C.B.S. Morais J.  
I agree. 

Judge of the Court of Appeal. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
