IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

Court of Appeal Case No.
cA/WRT/0359/2023

19M Brurwdth: ts
Kenhe

29. Mr + Charms
pel Wecrastecs

c ) say \

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for orders in the
nature of Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus
made under and in terms of Article 140 of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka,

1. G. L. Jayaweera,
No. 49, Paniyanduuwa,
Ambalangoda,

Petitioner
vs.

1. Mr. Samitha Kurukulasooriya,
Zonal Director of Education - Ambalangoda,
Zonal Education Officer,

Ambalangoda.

2. Mr. 0. D. Mudalige,
Provincial Director of Education ~
Southern Province,

Department of Education -Southern
Province,
Upper Dickson Road, Galle.

3, Mr. Ranjith Yapa,
Secretary,
‘Southern Provincial Ministry of Education,

cA/WRT/0359/2023

Page 1 of 21
ye BH kas) g
peaseinbs
-) 1 5
Soy coy
6
7
8
9.
lea MTS 0
peckepriy &
tr)
ays"
ae a\'\ 3
ta) 5
Hin Mas Laesbnso fope2.
go aadent es
ans Moealtecn mt
2]

CA/WRT/0359/2023

Ground Floor, Dakshinapaya,
Labuduwa, Akmeemana.

Mr. Gunasena Hewawitharana,
Chairman,

Mr. Gamini Weerawickrama,
Secretary,

Mr. K. K. G. J. K. Siriwardhane,
Member,

‘Mr. Daya Witharana,
Member,

Mr. Srimal Wijesekara,
Member,

Mr. Sunil Dahanayake,
Member,

Mr. L. K. Ariyaratne,
‘Member,

Mr. Munidasa Halpandeniya,
Member,

‘The 4'%to 11! Respondents above at ~
Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission,

61 Floor, District Secretariat Building,
Galle.

Dr. W, Willie Gamage,
Governor-Southern Province,
Governor's Secretariat,
Lower Dickson Road,

Galle.

Page 2 of 21
Before: -M. T, MOHAMMED LAFFAR, J (ACT.P/CA).
K. M, 8. DISSANAYAKE, J.

Counsel: Chathura Galhena with Dharshani Weerasinghe for the Petitioner.

Manohara Jayasinghe, D. 8. G. For the Respondents.

Argued on: 10.03.2025
Written Submissions of

the Petitioner

tendered on 04.04.2025

Written Submissions
of the Respondents

tendered on 17.03.2025
Decided on. 28.08.2025
K.M, 8, DISSANAYAKE, J.

‘The Petitioner in the instant application has invoked the supervisory
jurisdiction of this Court under Article 140 of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called and referred to as
the ‘Constitution’ praying inter-alia, for a mandate in the nature of writ of
Certiorari quashing the decision of the Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission embodied in the letter dated 10% February, 2023 marked P19" by
which the application of the Petitioner to be absorbed to the Southern
Provincial Public Service was refused (Vide-prayer ‘b’ of the petition); for a

mandate in the nature of a writ of Certiorari quashing the decision of the

‘cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 8 of 21
Governor of the Southern Province embodied in the letter dated 12 April,
2023 marked ‘P23’ by which the application of the Petitioner to be absorbed to
the Southern Provinei
petition); for a mandate in the nature of a writ of Mandamus directing the 4" to
11% Respondents to absorb the Petitioner to the Southern Provincial Public
Service (Vide-prayer ‘d’ of the petition}; for a mandate in the nature of a writ of

Public Service was refused (Vide-prayer ‘c’ of the

‘Mandamus directing the 3" and/or the 4" to 11° Respondents to process the
retirement benefits and/or the pension of the Petitioner (Vide-prayer ‘c’ of the

petition).

‘The facts material and relevant to the instant application as recited by the
Petitioner in his petition, may be briefly, set out as follows;

‘The Petitioner's services had been suspended by the then, Secretary of the
Southern Provincial Ministry of Education by the letter 6" of March, 2012; that
subsequent to the suspension of his services, a disciplinary inquiry had been
conducted against the Petitioner by the Secretary of the Southern Provincial
Ministry of Education and the Petitioner's services had been terminated with
effect from, 6% of March 2012; that writ application bearing No. CA (Writ)
292/2019 had been instituted by the Petitioner in his Petition dated 12 July,
2019 and the members of the Public Service Commission of the Central
Government too, had subsequently, been added thereto by the amended
Petition dated 25% of October, 2019 (Pl) challenging the authority of the
Secretary of the Southern Provincial Ministry of Education to conduct
disciplinary proceedings against him on the premise that, the Petitioner had
been recruited by the Education Service Committee of the Public Service
Commission of the Central Government and had not been absorbed to the
Southern Provincial Public Service Commission; that, this Court had having
heard the said case by its order dated 20% of January, 2022 (P2), issued a Writ
of Certiorari as prayed for in paragraphs (<),d),(e), and () of the amended

nee ements earn aiee
cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 4 of 21
petition quashing the impugned orders marked “P12”, “P17*, “P20", and “P22";
that, in view of the aforesaid judgment, the Petitioner was reinstated to his last
place of service, namely; G/ Kandegoda Maha Vidyalaya pursuant to several
requests being made thereto by him; that, by a circular bearing No, 19/2022
titled “Reducing the Age of Compulsory Retirement of Public Officers up to 60
Years", dated 14% September 2022 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government (P7),
the age of retirement of all public servants was made (60) years and whoever
has completed Sixtieth year by 31* of December 2022 was made to retire as

per the said circular; that, the Petitioner reached his 60% year on 10%
February, 2022 and as per the aforesaid circular, he was made to retire, on
31* of December 2022; the Zonal Director of Education of Ambalangoda-1*
Respondent had on or about 9** September 2022 (P8), forwarded a letter to the
Provincial Director of Education of Southern Province-2! Respondent, with
three sets of documents and recommended to absorb him to Southern
Provincial Public Servi

Ministry of Education-3"! Respondent had by letter dated 10” October, 2022

that, the Secretary of the Southern Provincial

(P9), recommended to the secretary of the Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission to absorb the Petitioner to the Southern Provincial Public Service;
that in this regard, the Zonal Director of Education of Ambalangoda-1*
Respondent had by the letter dated 31” of December, 2022 (P10), sought
advice from the Provincial Director of Education of Southern Province-2m!
Respondent for the reason that the Petitioner was due to retire on 31" of
December, 2022; that, even, the Provincial Director of Education of Southern
Province-2! Respondent too, had by his letter dated 14% of November, 2022
(P11) sought advice from the Secretary of the Southern Provincial Ministry of
Education-3" Respondent on the same matter whereas, the Zonal Director of
Education of Ambalangoda-I* Respondent had by the letters dated 14%
November, 2022 (P12) and 08% December, 2022 (P13), sought instructions

cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page $ of 21
from the 24 and 3"! Respondents regarding the same; that Legal Officer of the
Chief Secretariat of the Southern Province had by the letter dated 19%
January, 2023 (P14), sought instructions from the Attorney General regarding,
the absorption of the Petitioner to the Provincial Public Service for which the
Attorney General had opined as contained in the document marked (P15) that
there was no legal impediment to the Petitioner to be absorbed to the Southern
Provincial Public Service; that the Zonal Director of Education of Ambalangoda-
1M Respondent had_ by the letters dated 12! January, 2023 (P17) and 2»
February, 2023 (P18) sought advice in regard to the retirement of the Petitioner
from the Provincial Director of Education of Southern Province-24 Respondent;
that, the Southern Provincial Public Service Commission had by its letter dated
10% February, 2023 (P19), had informed the Secretary of the Southern
Provincial Ministry of Education-3 Respondent that, the request of the
Petitioner to be absorbed to the Southern Provincial Public Service was refused
and the Petitioner was informed of the same by the Secretary of the Southern

Provincial Ministry of Education~
February, 2023 (P20); that, the Petitioner had preferred an appeal to the
Governor of the Southern Province-the 12 Respondent on 27% of February,

Respondent by the letter dated 22% of

2023 (P21) against the said decision of the Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission not to absorb him to the Southern Province Public Service which
was refused by the Governor of the Southern Province-the 12% Respondent by
the letter dated 12% of April, 2023 (P23); that, in consequence, the pension was
not paid to the Petitioner to date nor taken steps to process it by the Southern
Provincial Council where he had been in employment since 1992
notwithstanding the fact that the reinstatement of the Petitioner thereto had
taken place by virtue of the said judgment of this Court (P2) and also, the fact
that he be deemed an employee thereof, in view of his salaries being paid by
the Southern Provincial Council Fund although, he had not been duly,
absorbed thereto by the Southern Provincial Public Service Commission; that,

TN
ca/WRT/0359/2023 Page 6 of 21
the Petitioner had legitimate expectation for him to be duly, absorbed to the
Southern Provincial Public Service specially after him being reinstated in view
of the said judgment of this Court; that, in view of the above, the decisions of
both the Southern Provincial Public Service Commission (P19) and the
Governor of the Southern Province (P23) refusing him to be absorbed into the
Southern Provincial Public Service were thus, a) ultra vires; b) bad in law; ¢)
bias; d) irrational; e) unfair; f) against the rules of Natural Justice; g) violation
of his legitimate expectation; hjin violation of the Wednesbury rules of
reasonableness and were liable to be quashed by an order in the nature of a
Writ of Certiorari and for the same reasons the failure of the Southern

Provincial Public Service Commission to absorb the Petitioner to Southern

Provincial Public Service is liable to be enforced by way of an order in the
nature of a Writ of Mandamus.

‘The Respondents on the other hand, had in their collective statements of

objection, while, denying categorically, unequivocally and in unambiguous
terms that they had acted illegally, unlawfully, unreasonably,

rationally,
maliciously and in a disproportionate manner with respect to any transaction,
dealing, correspondence, order, determination or any other matter affecting the
Petitioner or any person claiming under him as alleged by the Petitioner,
submitted that, they had in all their dealings with the Petitioner acted in good
faith and in accordance with the law and that they had at no stage sought to
further a collateral purpose nor had they acted with an improper motive. It was
further submitted therein, by the Respondents that they had at all times,
acted, fairly, reasonably and according to law by following the proper
procedure. Hence, it was urged by the Respondents that in view of the above
and the further matters pleaded in defense in the averments in paragraph 21 (i)
to (x) of their collective statements of objection, the instant application should
be dismissed with costs

cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 7 of 21
It was the position adverted to by the Petitioner in the averments in paragraph
2 of the written submissions that, the decision made by Southern Provincial
Public Service Commission (P19) as well as the decision made by the Governor
of the Southern Province (P23) refusing to absorb the Petitioner into the
Southern Provincial Public Service were based on the similar line of reasoning,
Hence, the Petitioner's entire case was presented to this Court on the said
premise/assumption that, both of the decisions (P19 and 23) contained the

similar line of reasoning.

‘As manifest from the averments in paragraphs 28 and 29 of the petition, the
Petitioner secks in the instant application to impugn both of those orders (P19
and P23) mainly, on the following two grounds, namely;

a) by reinstating the Petitioner upon the judgment of this Court by the
Secretary of the Southern Provincial Ministry of Education (the 3"
Respondent) and the salaries of the Petitioner being paid by the Southern
Provincial Council Fund, the Petitioner is deemed to be an employee of
the Southern Provincial Service despite not being duly absorbed by the
Southern Provincial Commission;

>)

there is a legitimate expectation for the Petitioner to be duly absorbed to
the Southern Provincial Public Service especially after being reinstated
‘upon the judgment of this Court in case bearing No. CA(Writ) 292/2019

and to receive a pension after retirement;

It was on that premise, it was contended by the Petitioner that the decision
made by the Provincial Public Service Commission (P19) as well as the decision
made by Governor of the Southern Province (P23) refusing to absorb the
Petitioner into the Southern Province Public Service both of which according to
the Petitioner, was made on the similar line of reasoning, had been a) ultra

ee nnn
CA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 8 of 21
vires; b) bad in law; ¢) bias; d) irrational; e) unfair; f) against the rules of
Natural Justice; g) violation of his legitimate expectation; h) in violation of the
Wednesbury rules of reasonableness and therefore, they are liable to be
quashed by orders in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari and Writ of Mandamus.

Grounds enumerated as (a) and (b) above would I think, call for separate

treatment,

a) by reinstating the Petitioner upon the judgment of this Court by the
Secretary of the Southern Provincial Ministry of Education (the 3
Respondent) and the salaries of the Petitioner being paid by the
Southern Provincial Council Fund, the Petitioner is deemed to be an
‘employee of the Southern Provincial Service despite not being duly
absorbed by the Southern Provincial Commission;

It may now, be examined.

‘The Zonal Director of Education, Ambalangoda-1" Respondent had sent a
letter dated 91” of September, 2022 (P8) to the Provincial Director of Education
of Southern Province-2" Respondent (P8) recommending absorption of the
Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Ser
the Southern Provincial Ministry of Education- 3" Respondent (P9) had by the
letter dated 10% of October, 2022 (P9) forwarded it to the Secretary to the
Southern Provincial Public Service Commission-5 Respondent recommending

while, the Secretary to

absorption of the Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Service. The
Southern Provincial Public Service Commission-5® Respondent had through its
Secretary-5 Respondent, communicated its decision dated 10! of February,
2023 (P19), made by it on the request made to it with their recommendation
by 1%, 204 and 3* Respondents as aforesaid with regard to the absorption of
the Petitioner into the Southern Province Public Service 2023, refusing the

ca/WRT/0359/2023 Page 9 of 21
same. It is this decision that the Petitioner inter-alia, seeks to impugn before us

in this applicati

The Petitioner had in the averments in paragraph 21 of the written
submissions, reproduced the following as being the sole reason as had been
adduced in the decision (P19) by the Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission for its refusal to absorb the Pe
Public Service;

joner into the Southern Province

+... DOS gimdes Hzigd CadxyzS Ld 686 Emasiss 688 Qswdm>
eH OG rds oHdSO guindguess 69 Ex gases Baizd
9Oe280 cad OD ADB, da Findaad mon CAD guards dn
ads cnSas3 amd 58s HSdeas mdn C2."

When it translates into English, it reads thus;

Therefore, the Commission observed that the absorption of this
teacher into the Southern Provincial Public Service on a date prior to the
date of the Court decision would be in contempt of Court.”

‘The question that would then, arise for our consideration would be;
“Is that the only reason adduced in the decision (P19) by the Southern
Provincial Public Service Commission for its refusal to absorb the
Petitioner into the Southern Province Public Service as submitted by the
Petitioner?”
To find out a precise and a definite answer to this question, it would be most
necessary to peruse and scrutinize the decision (P19) in its totality.
However, upon a careful perusal and scrutiny of the decision (P19) in its
totality, it becomes abundantly, clear that, the reason adduced by the
Petitioner in the averments in paragraph 21 of the written submissions, was
tt
CA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 10 of 21
not at all the sole reason that had been adduced by the Southern Provincial
Public Service Commission for its refusal to absorb the Petitioner into the
Southern Province Public Service but, it does contain another vital and cogent
reason adduced by it for its refusal of the same and it can be found on the

reverse of the decision (P19) and it reads thus;

“dm 28 emBuzs sind BBxi Hxiwass mdm C8. Hd gomdas
BBE_D CA 2O HED mdexd 8 Qdr HODI2Os Sued sdded
Acdseam am mes FAO ANS 425 SBmes BOGR BOs does
exec AGA6x BAzs By B59 HO.SE BoED4ss Om OD ¢ e=mrBuss
tend 5823 HExiwesa mdn C8. OdBz! 68 qr HOO eG OE
Goahs G0 aringnns B20 mdn cot ede BBaleds 4680 6:0
Sart sod 5823 Bdeis mdm o¢ 2 emda} wend Had 968 2
C258 {30> BOS.”

When it translates into English, it reads thus;

“Furthermore, the Commission also observed that the correct procedure
is to conduct his future administrative affairs by the authorities of the
Central Public Service, based on the fact that this teacher is an officer of
the Central Government Service, Therefore, I kindly inform you that the
‘Commission has decided to reject the request made by this teacher to be
absorbed into the Southern Provincial Public Service, as per the order of

the Commission.”

Hence, it clearly, appears to me upon a careful perusal and scrutiny of the
decision of the Southern Provincial Public Service Commission (P19), that the
contention of the Petitioner that, the Southern Provincial Public Service
‘Commission had refused to absorb the Petitioner into the Southern Provincial
Public Service only for the reason adduced in it (P19) namely; *.... SSat

cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 11 of 21
Bdmdes HahgO cdr.g2s EHO 686 EnsH2} 699 Qcwdm ees
SEos} Hes exds0 gsin’onss B69 Hs yOmdses Haied
4OeDO Cad Dw Ad2t, da YdmdesGd Md GAD yowxan dn
2d3 omSa25 ed 58x H6sweccs mdm C8.” which means in
English; “....Therefore, the Commission observed that the absorption of
this teacher into the Southern Provincial Public Service on a date prior to
the date of the Court decision would 9 of Court.", is wholly,
untenable for; in the light of what had been contained in the s

in conti

id decision

(P19), two reasons had clearly, been adduced therein, therefor, by it. [Emphasis

However, let me now, examine the first reason so adduced by the Southern
Provincial Public Service Commission in its decision (P19) for its refusal to
absorb the Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Service.

Upon a careful perusal of the judgment (P2), it becomes abundantly clear, that
nowhere in the judgment (P2), had there been any direction on the Southern
Provincial Public Service Commission (P19) prohibiting it from absorbing the
Petitioner to the Southern Province Public Service on a date prior to the date of,

the Court decision.

In the circumstances, the pertinent question that would arise is; How can it be

contempt of court upon the Petitioner's absorption thereto on a date pi

oF to
the date of the Court decision (P19}?. This question should in my view, be

answered in the negative,

Hence, the first reason so adduced as aforesaid by the Southern Provincial
Public Service Commission in its decision (P19) as being one of the reasons for
the refusal to absorb the Petitioner to the Southern Province Public Service,
clearly, shows that it had thereby, taken into its consideration wholly,
irrelevant matter in arriving at the decision contained therein (P19) and

teen
CA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 12 of 21
therefore, the said reason adduced by it for the refusal to absorb the Petitioner
to the Southern Province Public Service, cannot wholly, be sustainable and

therefore,

should be rejected In-limine.

Let me now, examine the other reason which is in my opinion, the most
important, vi

| and pertinent reason adduced as aforesaid by the Southern
Provincial Publ

c Service Commission in its decision (P19) as being another
reason for the refusal to absorb the Petitioner to the Southern Province Publie
Service and it may once again, be reproduced for convenience and clarity as
follows;

“0m O03 omBass send DAs} HSxiwecs mda of. mds gmdes
Bw_D C200 Hem mda28 689 Qc HIMODS Seed seldod
Acddeay sm mes AAO Ae 926 sSaes DOG Bs does
exuded AcaOx HAs} By H59 HOG? waSDes Om @D ¢ oxrBazs
snd 5823 Hidasss mdm C8. daSz} 69® Qc mm epee GES
Gis 6Osd ysinguns 980 mdm cy 9680 Sdaieds 5620
omdess e128 SB Hdass mdm cz AD emr8uzs aenred Had
868 aiid enido BOS."

When it translates into English, it reads thus;

“Furthermore, the Commission also observed that the correct procedure
is to conduct his future administrative affairs by the authorities of the
Central Public Service, based on the fact that this teacher is an officer of
the Central Government Service, Therefore, | kindly inform you that the
‘Commission has decided to reject the request made by this teacher to be
absorbed into the Souther Provincial Public Service, as per the order of
the Commission.”

‘cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 13 of 21
It is significant to observe at this juncture, that, this Court had granted relief to
the Petitioner in its judgment in case bearing No. CA (Writ) 292/2019 (P2)
solely on the basis, that the Petitioner had never been absorbed to the
Southern Provincial Public Service and therefore, he had never been an
employee of Southern Provincial Public notwithstanding the fact that the
Petitioner had already, accepted transfers, salaries and benefits from the
‘Southern Provincial Council Service as contended by the Petitioner in that case
while totally, rejecting the contention advanced by the learned Senior State
Counsel for the Respondents that, the Petitioner was estopped from taking up
the position that he had not been absorbed to the Southern Provincial Public
Service for; the Petitioner had already, accepted transfers, salaries and benefits
from the Southern Provincial Council Service

Hence, it is a matter of fact that had been finally, and conclusively, adjudicated
and decided by this Court in its judgment in the former case bearing No. CA
(Writ) 292/2019 (P2}, pronounced by this Court on 20 of January, 2022 that,
the Petitioner had even, by the time of the delivery of the judgment, namely;
20 of January, 2022, never been absorbed to the Southern Provincial Public
Service and therefore, he had never been an employee of Southern Provincial
Public notwithstanding the fact that the Petitioner had already, accepted
transfers, salaries and benefits from the Southern Provincial Council Service,
but remained as an employee under the Educational Service Committee of the
Public Service Commission of the Central Government notwithstanding his
assumption of duties as an English Language assistant teacher under the
Southern Provincial Public Service since 2° of January, 1992 until up-to the
date of the delivery of the judgment of the former case on 20% of January,
2022.

In terms of the circular bearing No. 19/2022 titled “Reducing the Age of

Compulsory Retirement of Public Officers up to 60 Years", dated 14%

net
€A/WRT/0359/2023 Page 14 of 21
‘September 2022 issued by the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs,
Provincial Councils and Local Government (P7), the age of retirement of all
public servants was made (60) years and whoever has completed Sixtieth year
by 31” of December 2022 was made to retire as per the said circular, and the
Petitioner had reached his 60% year on 10" February, 2022 and as per the

aforesaid circular, he too, was made to retire, on 31° of December 2022.

It is however, significant to observe, that absorption process into the Southern
Provincial Public Service in relation to the Petitioner had only, commenced
much after a day, the Petitioner had already, reached his compulsory age of
retirement, namely; 10! February, 2022, as evident from the letter dated 9% of
September, 2022 sent to the 24 Respondent by the 1* Respondent (P8) and the
letter dated 10% of October 2022 sent to the 5! Respondent by the 3t
‘ioner to the Southern

Respondent (P9) regarding absorption of the Pel
Provincial Public Service.

Hence, the second reason assigned in its decision (P19) by the Southern
Provincial Public Service Commission for the refusal to absorb the Petitioner
into the Southern Provincial Public Service, namely; the correct procedure is
to conduct his future administrative affairs by the authorities of the
Central Public Service, inasmuch as the Petitioner was an officer of the
Central Government Service, is wholly, tenable both in view of the facts and

circumstances pertaining to the instant application as enumerated above.

It is to be reiterated once again at this juncture, it was the position adverted.
to by the Petitioner in the averments in paragraph 22 of the written
submissions that, the decision made by Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission (P19) as well as the decision made by the Governor of the
Southern Province (P23) refusing to absorb the Petitioner into the Southern
Provincial Public Service were based on the similar line of reasoning. Hence,
the Petitioner's entire case was presented to this Court on the said

‘cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 15 of 21
premise/assumption that, both of the decisions (P19 and P23) contained the
similar line of reasoning,

In addition to the second reason assigned by the Southern Provincial Public
Service Commission for its decision (P19) for the refusal to absorb the
Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Service, there is a further reason
Respondent, for
the refusal to absorb the Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Service

and it contains in both paragraphs 1(VI) and 4 of his decision (P23), namely;

assigned to it by the Governor of the Southern Province-1

"888 Bag mdengnd @O emaG Sera! does seSO gard Higa
Seam 6mOH AD mOnmOnss MH|C Om yd, F AMD eQey BE
2 e980 gad emOm HeddGboay wassiaesss 88 289
880210 mde 99 H680 quect Bua Duesbecss O60x86 moved
8:

‘When translated into English paragraph 1(VI) of it(P23) reads thus,
“In view of all these matters, it is confirmed once again that you are not
an officer belonging to the Southern Provincial Public Service, and
accordingly, it is beyond our scope to deal with matters relating to the
retirement of an officer who does not belong to the Southern Provincial
Council.”

gene VIS G28 Guts SUG GAD EmANG BES HB BO WAKO
ands mde 86 BS OHO emo B APs, @ BAC
AcDrGxida HOS SAH gg) Hannasl eds2 Bded Sgro
OBO YOE DE OO MO OHO AODas H6xisess omsd. I
FAL, Bod mansin mOgR BLAD Acne, @DS® deed debs exld>
emoBuss cemed gaurem eetdmBQ0 6D w.0sdm a.528 adect

cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 16 of 21
Se20 este on 926 pandin ada ween gameD gorianaed
6B9D652 69D 69 dz Hd EGdD 65.9 06 4:5 ASzi I and mOgR
agmrosioneces DRDO ¢—18 6¢8."

When translated into English paragraph 4 of it (P23) reads thus,

“Although the Southern Provincial Council is unable to proce

your
institutional matters in accordance with the above VI, there is no
obstacle to getting your retirement matters handled by an appropriate
institution that has the authority over you. Accordingly, since the powers
regarding your institutional matters are transferred to the Education
Services Committee of the Central Government Public Service
Commission, I kindly inform you that the documents for your retirement
and future institutional matters have been forwarded to the Secretary to
the Ministry of Education, and accordingly, arrangements should be
made’

Hence,
that the documents required for the due and timely, process of the Petitioner's
retirement and fature institutional matters have already, been forwarded to the
Secretary to the Ministry of Education, by the Governor of the Southern,

it clearly, appears from the reasons set out in paragraph 4 of it (P23),

Province-12% Respondent thereby, clearly, showing his bona fides and
unbiasness of his towards the Petitioner and therefore, it cannot be said that
the Petitioner would be prejudicially affected by the decisions contained in P19
and P23 which refused to absorb him to the Southern Provincial Public Service
for; remedy will no doubt, lie with the Education Service Committee of the
Public Service Commission of the Central Government in view of the fact that,
he had right throughout been an employee of the Central Government as
maintained by him in the former case bearing No. CA(Writ) 22/2019 and as
upheld by this Court therein.

CA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 17 of 21
It is my further view that, the reasons set out in paragraphs (vi) and 4 of the
decision (P23) by the Governor of the Southern Province-12 Respondent too,
will no doubt, fortify and strengthen the reasons adduced for its decision for
the refusal to absorb the Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Service
by the Southern Provincial Public Service Commission contained in P19.

Lord Greene’s judgment in Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd Vs.
Wednesbury Corportion [1948] 1KB 223 is commonly cited today in decisions
involving judicial review of powers for unreasonableness. What is often referred
to as the “Wednesbury Test” is the proposition that a Court may interfere with
the exercise of discretion for unreasonableness only when the authority has
come to a conclusion so unreasonable no reasonable authority could ever have
come to it.” The meaning of “unreasonable” was central to the decision of the
House of Lords in the Tameside Case [1977] AC 1014. Lord Diplock there said
that, “unreasonable denotes conduct which no sensible authority acting with
due appreciation of its responsibilities would have decided to adopt.” (Vide-
Wade and Bradley, “Constitutional and Administrative Law" Edited by A.W.
Bradley and Keith Ewing-Eleventh Edition at page 676).

In the light of the law and the facts and circumstances set out above, Iam of
the view that, viewed in the light of the reasons set out therein, and as
‘enumerated above, the decisions of both the Southern Provincial Public Service
Commission (P19) and of the Governor of Southern Province (P23) cannot in

any manner, be construed as being the decisions to be “so unreasonable that

no sensible authority acting with due appreciation of its responsibilities would

have decided to adopt”.
Hence, 1 am of the opinion that, the second reason thus, a!
Southern Provincial Public Service Commission for its decision (P19) for the
refusal to absorb the Petitioner into the Southern Provincial Public Service,
namely; “the correct procedure is to conduct his future administrative
eee ete rman nme ne a EERE ARAN
€A/WRT/0359/2023 Page 18 of 21

jigned by the
affairs by the authorities of the Central Public Service, inasmuch as the
Petitioner was an officer of the Central Government Service, when read
together with reasons set out in paragraphs I(vi) and 4 of the decision of the
Governor of the Southern Province contained in P23, is wholly, tenable both in
fact and law and therefore, the said decision based on the second reasor
all respects, lawful, rational, unbiased, and reasonable and therefore, they
cannot be construed as a) ultra vires; b) bad in law; c} bias; d) irrational; e}

unfair; f) against the rules of Natural Justice; g) violation of his legitimate
expectation; h) in violation of the Wednesbury rules of reasonableness as

contended by the Petitioner.

b) there is a legitimate expectation for the Petitioner to be duly
absorbed to the Southern Provincial Public Service especially after
being reinstated upon the judgment of this Court in case bearing No.
CA{Writ) 292/2019 and to receive a pension after retirement;

It may now be examined,

With regard to the burden of proof, it was interalia, held by Court in
Ginigathgala Mohandiramlage Nimalsiri Vs. Colonel P. P. J. Fernando and
Others-SC/FR/256/2010-decided on 17% September, 2015 as referred to in
his written submissions by the Petitioner that, “In order to seek redress under
the doctrine of legitimate expectation, a person should prove that, he had a
legitimate expectation which was based on a promise or an established
practice. Thus, the applicability of the said doctrine is based on the facts and
circumstances of each case.”

It was inter-atia, held by Court in Wickremasignhe and another Vs, The
Urban Development Authority [2002] 3 SLR 253.6 referred to in his written
submissions by the Petitioner that, “Legitimate expectation is pivoted on
fairness and reasonableness as long as these two components co-exist there

CA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 19 of 21
can and will always will be legitimate expectation....the public authority has a
duty to act with fairness and consistency in dealing with the Public and if it

makes inconsistent decisions unfairly and unjustly, it misuses its powers".

Sce also; Samagi Real Estates (Private) Limited Vs. Ceylon Electricity
Board-CA(Writ)_157/2021-decided_on 28 of February, 2024. and The
State of Bihar Vs. Dr. Sachindra Narayan AIR 2019 SC 708 as referred to in

his written submissions by the Petitioner.

It was contended by the Petitioner, in paragraph 30 of his written submissions,
that the expectation of the Petitioner to be absorbed into the Southern
Provincial Public Service is a legitimate expectation that falls within the powers
of the Southern Provincial Public Service to fulfil, and however, it had
unreasonably and unfairly, and irrationally, refused to absorb the Petitioner
1ed in P19 and P23,

into the Southern Provincial Public Service as cont

In the light of the law enumerated above, in order to seek redress under the
doctrine of legitimate expectation, the Petitioner in the instant application,
should prove that, he had a legitimate expectation which was based on a

promise adduced to him by the Respondents or due to an established practice
adopted by the Respondents; or else, a case of legitimate expectation had
arisen when the Respondents by representation or by past practice aroused
expectation on the Petitioner in the instant action which it was within their

powers to fulfill

However, record shows that the Petitioner had not adduced an iota of evidence
before us to establish that he had a legitimate expectation which was based on
a promise adduced to him by the Respondents or due to an established
practice adopted by the Respondents in relation to his absorption to the
Southern Provincial Public Service; or else, a case of legitimate expectation had
arisen in view of the representation made to him by the Respondents or in view

oneness ante
cA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 20 of 21
of the past practice that existed in relation to his absorption to the Southern
Provincial Public Service, that aroused expectation on the Petitioner in the

instant action and it was within their powers to fulfill,

Hence, | would hold that, the Petitioner had not in any manner, established the

second ground too, so urged by him in order to seek redress

n the instant

application against the Respondents.

In view of all the above facts and circumstances, | would hold that, the
Petitioner has not made out a case for an order in the nature of a Writ of
Certiorari against the Respondents quashing the decisions contained in P19
and P23 and also for an order in the nature of Mandamus directing the 4° to
11% Respondents to absorb the Petitioner to the Southern Provincial Public
Se

and to process the retirement benefits and/or the pension of the

Petitioner.

I would therefore, hold that the instant application is not entitled to succeed in

Doth in fact and law.

In the result, I would refuse to grant relief to the Petitioner as prayed for in the
prayer to his petition.

aay

JUDGE OF THE COURTOF APPEAL

CA/WRT/0359/2023 Page 21 of 21
