IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCTRATIC SOCIALIST 

REPUBLIC SRI LANKA 

In the matter of an application for 

revision under and in terms  of Article 

138 of the Constitution of the Democratic 

socialist republic of Sri Lanka. 

Court of Appeal No: 

CA/PHC/APN/CPA- NO: 21/2025 

MC Matara Case No: 585/2018            Officer-in-Charge 

                                                                Mawarala 

Police Station 

Complainant 

V.  

Thotagamuwa Kankanamge Gunethilake 

Near Public Market 

Mawarala 

AND BETWEEN 

Accused   

 Thotagamuwa Kankanamge Gunethilake 

Near Public Market 

Mawarala 

Accused –Appellant 

Page 1 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vs.  

                                                                Officer-in-Charge 

                                                                 Mawarala 

Police Station 

Complainant- Respondent 

                                                                The Attorney General 

Vs. 

Attorney General’s Department 

Colombo 12.  

Respondent 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

 Thotagamuwa kankanamge Gunethilake 

Near Public Market 

Mawarala 

Accused –Appellant-Petitioner  

Vs. 

                                                                 Officer-in-Charge 

                                                                 Mawarala 

Police Station 

Complainant- Respondent-Respondent 

Page 2 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                 The Attorney General 

Attorney general’s Department 

Colombo 12.  

Respondent-Respondent 

Before :             B. Sasi Mahendran, J.         

                         Amal Ranaraja, J            

Counsel:            Sarinda jayawardena for the   Accused- Appellant-Petitioner 

 Supported On:  12.03.2025 

Order On:          01.04.2025 

B. Sasi Mahendran, J. 

The Petitioner instituted this revision application seeking inter alia to revise and 

set aside the sentence imposed on the Accused-Appellant- Petitioner by judgment 

dated  11.11.2021  delivered  by  the  Provincial  High  Court  of  Southern  Province 

holden in Matara in the appeal bearing No. HC/Appeal/206/2019. 

The Petitioner states that he was charged on 13.02.2019 in the Magistrate’s Court 

of  Deiyandara  for  causing  grievous  hurt  to  Hettiarachchige  Nilantha  on 

30.09.2018  at  Mawarala,  an  offence  punishable  under  Section  316  of  the  Penal 

Code.  

The Petitioner avers that the prosecution led the evidence of the victim as PW1 

and PC Agalaka Arachchige Chinthaka Priyadarshana, the investigating officer. 

The Prosecution also marked the Medico-Legal Report as පැ-2 and a wooden rod 

Page 3 of 8 

 
 
 
                               
 
 
 
as පැ-1 and closed the case for the prosecution. Thereafter, the Petitioner gave a 

dock statement. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  trial,  the  Learned  Magistrate  by  judgment  dated 

21.08.2019 convicted the Petitioner of the offence of voluntarily causing grievous 

hurt and sentenced a fine of Rs. 1,000/- and a compensation of Rs. 10,000/- to be 

paid to PW1, the victim.  

The Petitioner being aggrieved by the said judgment of the Learned Magistrate of 

Deiyandara,  preferred  an  appeal  to  the  Provincial  High  Court  of  Southern 

Province holden in Matara on 09.09.2019 on the following grounds; 

a.  The  Learned  Magistrate  had  failed  to  consider  the  contradictions  in  the 

evidence in prosecution witnesses. 

b.  The  Learned  Magistrate  had  failed  to  consider  that  the  prosecution  had 

failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt 

c.  The  Learned  Magistrate  had  imposed  an  excessive  sentence  on  the 

Petitioner. 

Nevertheless,  the  Learned  Judge  of  the  Provincial  High  Court  delivered  the 

judgment on 11.11.2021 affirming the judgment of the Learned Magistrate. The 

Learned  Provincial  High  Court  Judge  enhanced  the  sentence  imposed  by  the 

Learned Magistrate in the following manner; 

1.  One year of rigorous imprisonment  

2.  A fine of Rs.1000/- and a default sentence of three months imprisonment  

3.  A compensation of Rs.100,000/- to be paid to PW1. 

The  Petitioner  being  aggrieved  by  the  said  judgment  of  the  Learned  Provincial 

High  Court  Judge,  invokes  the  revisionary  jurisdiction  of  this  Court  on  the 

following grounds which give exceptional circumstances; 

1.  Whether the Honourable Provincial High Court Judge of Matara erred in 

law when enhancing the sentence imposed on the Petitioner by the Learned 

Magistrate of Deiyandara, without permitting the Petitioner a show cause 

relating to the said enhancement of the sentence? 

Page 4 of 8 

 
2.  Whether  the  decision  of  the  Honourable  Provincial  High  Court  Judge  of 

Matara  violates  the  rules  of  Natural  Justice  by  failing  to  afford  an 

opportunity to the Accused-Appellant-Petitioner in enhancing the sentence 

imposed  on  him,  especially  where  neither  the  Complainant  nor  the 

aggrieved  party  has  preferred  an  appeal  seeking  the  said  sentence  to  be 

enhanced? 

3.  Whether  the  sentence  imposed  on  the  Petitioner  by  the  Honourable 

Provincial High Court Judge of Matara is excessive? 

The Petitioner  states  that  he  has filed  an appeal  in  terms of Section 331  of the 

Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 199 in case bearing No. CA PHC 11/2022. 

However, upon receiving advice that the said appeal is in contravention of law, the 

Petitioner withdrew the said application on 21.02.2025. The Petitioner states that 

therefore, there is no inordinate delay in filing the present application.  

When  we  peruse  the  judgment  of  the  Learned  High  Court  Judge  delivered  on 

11.11.2021,  he  has  given  reason  for  such  enhancement  applying  the  provisions 

from the Criminal Procedure Code. 

For the purpose of convenience, I reproduce an excerpt of the said judgment.  

On Page 162 of the brief;  

“අභියාචක  වෙනුවෙන්  අභියාචනා  වපත්සවෙහි  වෙන්ෙ  ලිඛිත  වේශනයන්හිද  සඳහන්  කර 

ඇත්වත් උගත් ෙවහේසේරාත් තුමිය අධික දඬුෙෙක් අභියාචකට නියෙ කර ඇති බෙටය.  උගත් 

ෙවහේසේරාත්    තුමිය  චුදිත  අභියාචකට  නියෙ  කර  ඇත්වත්  රු.  100/-  ක  දඩ  මුදලක්  හා  රු. 

10,000/- ක ෙන්දි මුදලක් පෙණි.  ලංකා දණ්ඩ නීති සංග්‍රහවේ 316 ෙගන්තියට අනුෙ බරපතල 

තුොල  සිදු  කිරීවේ  වචෝදනාෙකට  ෙරදකරු  කරනු  ලැබූ  විට  ෙසර  07  දක්ො  ෙන  කාලයකට 

වදයාකාරයකින් එක ආකාරයකට බන්ධනාගාර ගත  කිරීෙකින් දඬුෙේ කල යුතුය. එවෙන්ෙ 

ඔහු  දඩයකටද  යටත්  විය  යුතුයි.  එයට  අෙතරෙ  අපරාධ  නඩු  විධාන  සංග්‍රහවේ  17  ෙන 

ෙගන්තියට  අනුෙ  ෙන්දි  මුදලකට  ද  හිමිකේ  ලැවේ.  එකී  ෙයසේථාපිත  නීතිවේ  සඳහන්  දඬුෙෙ 

වකවරහි  අෙධානය  වයාමුකිරීවේදී  බන්ධනාගාර  ගත  කිරීෙ  ෙයෙසේථාදායකය  අවේක්ෂා  කර 

ඇති බෙ වපනී යයි. ඒ අනුෙ උගත් ෙවහේසේරාත් තුමිය දඬුෙේ නිරිවේදී ෙයෙසේථාපිත නීතිවේ 

සඳහන් සිොෙන්ටද අඩුවෙන් දඬුෙේ නියෙ කර ඇති බෙ පැහැදිලි වේ.”  

Page 5 of 8 

 
This Court is mindful of the relevant provisions from the Criminal Procedure Code 

relating to the appeals to this Court.  

328. “At the hearing of the appeal the court may if it considers that there is 

no sufficient ground for interfering dismiss the appeal or may 

(a) in an appeal from an order of acquittal, reverse such order and 

direct that further inquiry be made or that the accused be re-tried 

or committed for trial as the case may be or find him guilty and pass 

sentence on him according to law; 

(b) in an appeal from a conviction - 

(i)  reverse  the  verdict  and  sentence  and  acquit  or 

discharge the accused or order him to be re tried by 

a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  or  committed  for 

trial, or 

(ii)  alter  the  verdict  maintaining  the  sentence,  or 

with  or  without  altering  the  verdict  increase  or 

reduce  the  amount  of  the  sentence  or  the  nature 

thereof; 

(c) in an appeal from any other order, alter or reverse such order; 

Provided always that the sentence awarded on an appeal shall not 

exceed the sentence which might have been awarded by the court of 

first instance.” 

336. “On an appeal against the sentence whether passed after trial by jury 

or  without  a  jury,  the  Court  of  Appeal  shall,  if  it  thinks  that  a  different 

sentence  should  have  been  passed,  quash  the  sentence,  and  pass  other 

sentence warranted in law by the verdict (whether more or less severe) in 

Page 6 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substitution therefor as it thinks ought to have been passed and in any other 

case shall dismiss the appeal.” 

Section 336  of the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  relating  to  enhancing  the  sentence 

was  discussed  by  His  Lordship  Amaratunga,  J  in  Bandara  V.  Republic  of  Sri 

Lanka, 2000 (2) SLR 277 at page 27; 

“Having considered the evidence available in the case and the submissions 

of counsel, it is our considered view that this is a fit case for us to use the 

power conferred on this Court by the Legislature to enhance the sentence 

in appropriate cases. Section 336 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act uses 

the  words  "a  sentence  .  .  .  passed  after  trial".  The accused-appellant  was 

convicted and sentenced on his own plea, but he had tendered his plea in 

the course of his trial. Therefore, we are satisfied that this case falls within 

section  336  which  deals  with 

sentences  passed  after 

trial. 

On  the  evidence  available  in  this  case  the  accused-appellant  could  have 

been indicted even for murder on the basis of the 4th limb of section 294 of 

the  Penal  Code.  Therefore,  in  this  case  he  deserves  a  longer  period  of 

imprisonment. 

However,  I  am  of  the  view  that  it  is  sufficient  to  impose  a  period  of  60 

months imprisonment on the accused-appellant to deliver a message to all 

those who have no respect for other persons right to life and property that 

this  Court  will  never  hesitate  to  use  its  powers under  section  336  in 

appropriate cases.” 

In the instant case, the Learned High Court Judge, after evaluating the evidence 

led before the Learned Magistrate has come to the conclusion that although the 

particular  charge  falls  under  Section  316  of  the  Penal  Code,  the  Learned 

Magistrate  has  failed  to  impose  the  sentence  which  is  prescribed  by  the  said 

Section. 

For easy reference, Section 316 is reproduced below; 

Page 7 of 8 

 
 
 
“316. Whoever, except in the case provided for by section 326, voluntarily 

causes  grievous  hurt  shall  be  punished  with  imprisonment  of  either 

description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be 

liable to fine; and if the person to whom the grievous hurt is caused shall be 

a woman or a child, may in addition be punished with whipping.” 

Therefore, there is no reason for us to intervene with the judgment of the Learned 

High Court Judge as he has applied the law and the legal principles correctly.  

Application dismissed with state costs of Rs. 25,000/- 

Amal Ranaraja, J.  

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

JUDGE  OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 

Page 8 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
