IN THE COURT APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  

OF SRI LANKA 

CA Application No: CPA 46/23 

HC Kandy Revision Application No: 60/2021 

MC Kandy Case No: 31345/21 

In the matter of an Application for 
Revision in term of Article 138 of 
the Constitution of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Sujeewa Suranga Palliyaguruge 

No.48/01, Rajapihilla Mawatha, 

Kandy, 

Petitioner 

Vs 

1.  Kahawatte Pallegedara 

Chandraratne 

No.06, Bremo Park, 

Katugasthota 

2.  Pinpare Sumanaratne Thero 

No.04, Kudarawatte Road, 

Kandy. 

Respondents 

AND THEN 

1.  Kahawatte Pallegedara 

Chandraratne 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No.06, Bremo Park, 

Katugasthota 

Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Sujeewa Suranga Palliyaguruge 
No.48/01, Rajapihilla Mawatha, 
Kandy, 
Petitioner – Respondent 

2.  Pinpare Sumanaratne Thero 
No.04, Kudarawatte Road, 

Kandy. 

Respondent- Respondent 

AND NOW BETWEEN 

Sujeewa Suranga Palliyaguruge 

No.48/01, Rajapihilla Mawatha, 

Kandy 

Petitioner – Respondent – 
Petitioner 

Vs. 

1.  Kahawatte Pallegedara 

Chandraratne 

No.06, Bremo Park, 

Katugasthota 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent – Petitioner – 
Respondent 

2.  Pinpare Sumanaratne Thero 
No.04, Kudarawatte Road, 

Kandy. 

Respondent – Respondent – 
Respondent 

Before  

: 

: 

Hon. M. Ahsan R. Marikar, J.(CA) 

Hon. R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.(CA) 

Counsel                          :            Kalinga Indatissa, P.C. with Savinda Herath and Dilmi  
                                                      Paranawitharana for the Petitioner-Respondent-Petitioner  

                                                      Pradeep Perera for the 1st Respondent-Petitioner-Respondent 

Argued on                      :            27.02.2025 

Decided on 

:             02.04.2025 

Hon. R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.(CA) 

1.  This  Judgment  shall  dispose  of  the  Revision  Application  preferred  by  the  Petitioner-
Respondent-Petitioner  challenging  the  Order  dated  04.04.2023  of  the  learned  High 
Court Judge of Kandy, by which he set aside the Order dated 03.10.2021 of the learned 
Magistrate of Kandy. 

2.  The Order of the Magistrate Court relates to a case filed under Section 66 of the Primary 
Courts’  Procedure  Act  No.  44  of  1979  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Primary  Courts’ 
Procedure Act”)  in  the Magistrate  Court  of  Kandy,  following  a report  submitted by the 
Officer in Charge of the Mawathagama Police Station. 

3.  Being aggrieved by the Order of the learned High Court Judge of Kandy, the  Petitioner 

preferred the instant Revision Application.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Upon receiving notices, the 1st Respondent-Petitioner-Respondent (hereinafter referred 
to  as  “the  1st  Respondent”)  filed  his  Objections.  In  the  Objections,  the  1st  Respondent 
raised several preliminary objections, challenging the maintainability of the  Petitioner’s 
Revision Application. 

5.  The objections raised by the 1st Respondent are as follows: 
•  The Revision Application is unlawful, illegal and misconceived in law 
•  The Affidavit of the Petitioner is unlawful, illegal and contrary to law 
•  The Revision Application is contrary to Rules 2 and 3 of the Court of Appeal Rules 1990 
•  The Petitioner has suppressed and/or misrepresented material facts 
•  The Petitioner has not come to court with clean hands and lack of uberima fides 
•  The Affidavit of the Petitioner is undated which renders the Affidavit illegal and void ab 

initio 

•  The schedule to the Petition which is the subject matter of the  Revision Application as 
per 4th paragraph of the Petition is erroneous and incorrect which renders the Revision 
Application null and void ab initio 

•  The Petitioner failed to identify the corpus of the action 
•  The Petitioner in the Revision Application failed to plead any exceptional circumstances 
which  are  recognized  by  law  necessitating  and/or  warranting  indulgence  for  invoking 
revisionary jurisdiction.  

6.  When  the  matter  was  taken  up  for  argument  on  27.02.2025,  both  counsels  agreed  to 
conclude  the  argument  with  the  documents  already  submitted.  Thus,  no  further 
submissions were made by either of them.  

7.   Rule 3 of the Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules sets out the manner in which 
applications are made to the Court of Appeal. For ease of reference, I will reproduce the 
relevant part. 

3(1) (a). Every application made to the Court of Appeal for the exercise of the powers 
vested in the Court of Appeal by Article 140 or 141 of the Constitution shall be by way 
of petition, together with an affidavit in support of the averments therein, and shall 
be accompanied by the originals of documents material to such application (or duly 
certified  copies  thereof)  in  the  form  of  exhibits.  Where  a  petitioner  is  unable  to 
tender any such document, he shall state the reason for such inability and seek the 
leave of the court to furnish such document later. Where a petitioner fails to comply 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
with  the  provisions  of  this  rule,  the  Court  may  ex-motu  or  at  the  instance  of  any 
party, dismiss such application. (emphasis added)  

(b). Every application by way of revision or restitutio in integrum under Article 138 of 
the  constitution  shall  be  made  in  like  manner  together  with  copies  of  relevant 
proceedings  (including  pleadings  and  documents  produced)  in  the  Court  of  First 
Instance, tribunal or other institution to which such application relates.  

8.  Thus,  for  revision  applications  also  Rule  3  (1)  (a)  shall  apply.  In  other  words,  when  a 
revision application is made it must be by way of a petition together with an affidavit.  

9.  One  of  the  objections  raised  by  the  Respondent  is  that  the  affidavit  submitted  by  the 
Petitioner  along  with  the  Petition  is  unlawful  and  contrary  to  law.  In  Sri  Lanka,  the 
requirements  for  an  affidavit  are  governed  by  the  Oaths  and  Affirmations  Ordinance, 
which sets out the law relating to oaths and affirmations in judicial proceedings.  

10. I  will  now  advert  to  the  validity  of  the  affidavit  as  it  remains  undated.  The  manner  in 
which an oath or an affirmation is to be administered in an affidavit is described in the 
Oaths  Ordinance  No.9  of  1895  (as  amended).  Section  12  of  that  Ordinance  stipulates 
thus:  “A  Commissioner  for  Oaths  appointed  under  this  Ordinance  may  administer  any 
oaths  or  affirmation  or  take  any  affidavit  for  the  purpose  of  any  legal  proceedings  or 
otherwise in all cases in which a Justice of the Peace is authorized by law so to do ...” 

11. In  the  present  Revision  Application,  it  is  observed  that  the  Affidavit  filed  by  the 
Petitioner along with the  Petition is undated. An affidavit must typically be signed and 
dated  to  establish  the  authenticity  of  the  statements  made  therein.  The  absence  of  a 
date  may  raise  questions  regarding  the  time  of  execution,  potentially  affecting  its 
evidentiary value. 

12. As  observed  by  Justice  Sharvananda  (as  he  then  was),  in  the  case  of  Kobbekaduwa  V 

Jayawardene [1983] 1 Sri LR 419 ; 

“The function of an affidavit is to verify the facts alleged in the petition. The affidavit 
furnishes prima facie evidence of the facts deposed to in the affidavit. Section 13 of 
the Oaths and Affirmation Ordinance (Cap.17) furnishes the sanction against a false 
affidavit by making the deponent guilty of the offence of giving false evidence. In an 
affidavit a person can depose only to facts which he is able of his own knowledge and 
observation to testify”. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. In  FACY  vs.  SANOON  AND  OTHERS  [2003]  3  Sri  LR  8  it  was  held  by  Udalagama,  J  as 

follows: 

"Having  regard  also  to  the  need  to  maintain  consistency  in  judgments  I  would  also 
hold as held repeatedly by this Court that a faulty affidavit could not be considered a 
mere  technicality  but  in  fact  fatal  to  the  entire  application  and  as  also  held  by  the 
Court  on  numerous  occasions  a  defective  affidavit  is  bad  in  law  and  warrants 
rejection." 

14. Courts  have  decided,  in  a  plethora  of  cases,  that  where  a  rule  of  Court  specifies  the 
mode,  manner  and procedures for  something  to  be  done  (such  as  an  act for  example) 
such thing should be carried out in the manner prescribed by the appropriate rules. In 
the Nigerian case of Nyaro v Zading (YL 124 of 2015) [2016 NG CA 10] (28th July 2016), 
Onalaja, JCA, made the following statement;   

“The law, no doubt, is that rules of Court should be obeyed”. 

15. In  Lablache  De  Charmoye  v.  Lablache  De  Charmoye  SCA  9  of  2019  SCCA  34  (17th 

September 2019) the Court of Appeal of Seychelles held that; 

“Rules  cannot  be  overlooked  for  the  sake  of  expedience  or  simplicity  because  rules 
are to be followed”. 

16. The Petitioner has instituted this Revision Application by way of a Petition and Affidavit 
as required by the Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules. The purpose of filing an 
affidavit is to affirm the contents of the petition.  The purpose and legal significance of 
affidavits in legal proceedings has been observed in Kumarasinghe v Ratnakumara and 
Others  [1983]  2  Sri  LR  393  (at  pg.396)  by  Sharvananda,  A.C.J.,  (as  he  then  was)  as 
follows: 

"  An  affidavit  is  an  oath  in writing  signed  by  the  party  deposing,  sworn  before  and 
attested by him who had authority to administer the same. " 1 Bacon's Abridgement 
124.  An  affidavit  is  a  declaration  as  to  facts  made  in  writing  and  sworn  before  a 
person having authority to administer an oath. Any particular fact may be proved by 
an  affidavit.  The  law  provides  for  the  admissibility,  in  certain  circumstances,  of 
evidence  by  affidavit.  The  evidence  given  by  way  of  an  affidavit  is  a  substitute  for 
testimony  given  by  word  of  mouth.  The  affidavit  can  be  used  as  evidence  of  facts 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stated  therein.  Any  person  acquainted  with  the  facts  may  give  the  affidavit.  An 
affidavit is only intended to satisfy the Court, prima facie, that the allegations in the 
application are true so that the Court may take legal action such as issuing notice on 
the  opposite  party  on  the  basis  of  the  evidence,  provided  by  the  affidavit.  If  the 
allegation of fact made in an affidavit in support of the application is not refuted by 
counter  affidavit  by  the  opposite  party,  then  the  allegation  in  the  application  is 
treated  as  true.  Affidavit  in  support  of  the  application  thus  serves  the  purpose  of 
proof of facts stated therein. It furnishes the evidence verifying the allegation of facts 
contained in the petition. Affidavit evidence carries equal sanctity as oral evidence. 

17. Therefore, it is of paramount importance that the affidavit is in proper order. However, 
in the present  Application, the supporting affidavit does not bear the date on which it 
was attested. As a result, there is no valid affidavit to affirm the contents of the petition. 
Consequently, the very institution of the Revision Application is invalid and contravenes 
the Court of Appeal Rules of 1990. 

18. In Kumarasiri and Another v. Rajapakse [2006] 1 SLR 359, it was held inter alia that: 

On  an  examination  of  the  affidavit,  it  is  clear  that  the  jurat  therein  is  not  in 
conformity  with  the  law.  It  is  rather  confusing  and  incorrectly  worded;  it  does  not 
state where the affidavit was affirmed.  

Per Somawansa J., (P/CA) ; 

“It is to be seen that, it is the flesh and blood of the affidavit which gives life to the 
skeleton in the petition.” 

19. The affidavit filed by the Petitioner in this case, in my view, being fatally flawed need to 
have been rejected in limine resulting in the absence of a proper affidavit under the Rule 
3(1)  (a)  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  (Appellate  Procedure)  Rules  referred  to  above. 
Consequently,  a  revision  application  that  fails  to  conform  to the  Court of  Appeal  Rules 
and should be rejected. As a result, there is no valid revision application before the Court 
of Appeal. 

20. It is also important to note that the description of the property in the case before the 
Magistrate Court differs entirely from the description provided in the Petition filed in the 
Court  of  Appeal.  This  discrepancy  indicates  that  the  Petitioner  failed  to  exercise  due 
diligence in filing the present Revision Application. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. In the schedule to the Petition filed in the Magistrate Court, the property was described 

as follows: 

මධ්‍යම පළාතේ, දිස්ත්‍රික්කතේ, ගගවට තකෝරළතේ, ප්‍රාතේශීය තේකම් තකාට්ඨාශතේ මහනුවර 
මහනගර ස්ත්‍භා සීමාව තුල අනීවේත බටහිර නිලධ්‍ාරි තකාට්ටාශතේ ත ාඩන්වල පිටකන්  පිහිටි 
“ගිනිහපුතේ තහරන ස්ත්‍හ ගේකඩුේතේ තහරන” නැමැති ඉඩමට මිනින්ත ෝරු ඒ. එම්. ඩී. අතපේතු 
විසින් මැන ස්ත්‍ා න ල  අංක  678 ස්ත්‍හ  2016-11-13 දින  රණ පිඹුතේ   නිරූපිත අංක  1  රණ 
පේචස්ත්‍ර පහතලාවයි  ශම අටක්  (අ.  00 රූ.  00 පේ.  15.8) ක් තහවේ තහක්ටයාේ  0.03996ක් 
වපස්ත්‍රිය  ඇති  ඉඩමට  මායිම්  වන,  උතුරු  නැගෙනහිරට  -  වව ය  තස්ත්‍තනවිරේනට  අයිති 
ඉඩම ,  දකුණු  නැගෙනහිරට  -  ත ෝේ්  ඊ     සිේවා  මාවතේ  වරිපනම්  අංක  307/1/1   රණ 
තේපල ස්ත්‍හ මිනින්ත ෝරු ඊර වි සිරිසුමන විසින් මැන ස්ත්‍ා න ල  අංක 1880  රණ පිඹුතේ කැබලි 
අංක 3  රණ ඉඩම් තකාටස්ත්‍ක් , දකුණු බස්නාහිරට - කැබලි අංක 5  රණ ප්‍රතේශ මාේගය ස්ත්‍හ 
තේපල මිනින්ත ෝරු ඊර වි සිරිසුමන විසින් මැන ස්ත්‍ා න ල  අංක 1880  රණ පිඹුතේ කැබලි අංක 
3  රණ ඉඩම් තකාටස්ත්‍ක්  උතුරු බස්නාහිරට - ත ෝේ් ඊ   සිේවා මාවත යන නම තමකී මායිම් 
තුළ පිහිටි වරිපනම් අංක 3098  රණ තගාඩනැගිේල ඇතුලු ස්ත්‍ෑම සියලු තේ ේ තේ. 

22. However,  in  the  schedule  to  the  Petition  filed  in  the  Court  of  Appeal,  the  property  is 

described as follows: 

ඉහත කී පළමු උපගේඛනය මධ්‍යම පළාතේ, මහනුවර දිස්ත්‍රික්කතේ ගගවට තකෝරතේ 
ප්‍රාතේශීය තේකම් තකාට්ඨාශතේ මහනුවර මහ නගර ස්ත්‍භා සීමාව තුළ සියඹලාගස්ත්‍රතැන්න ග්‍රාම 
නිළධ්‍ාරි  වස්ත්‍තම්  සියඹලාගස්ත්‍රතැන්න  පිහිටි  පේතේවේත  නැමැති  ඉඩමට  බලයලේ 
මිනින්ත ාරු ඒෆර. මාපලගම මහතා විසින් 1955.06.15 තවනි දින මැන ස්ත්‍ා න ල  අංක.3069 
 රණ පිඔුතේ ප්‍රකාර තබ ා තවන්කල කැබලි අංක 05  රණ තකාටස්ත්‍ වන උතුරු  - 
නැතගනහිරට :- කටුගස්ත්‍රතතාට පාර ,  කුණු නැතගනහිරට :- පාර ,  කුණට :- මැක්ලමිස්ත්‍ර 
ඩ්‍රයිේ  , උතුරු - බස්ත්‍රනාහිරට :- තමම පිඹුතේ කැබලි අංක 3   මායිම් තුළ පිහිටි පේචස්ත්‍ර 24.75 
ක් වපස්ත්‍රිය ඇති ඉඩම ස්ත්‍හ ඒර තුළ පිහිටි අංක 429  රණ තුන් මහේ තගාඩනැගිේල ස්ත්‍හිත 
ඉඩම තේ. 

23. A  comparison  of  the  aforementioned  schedules  clearly  shows  that  the  property 
described in the schedule to the Petition before the Magistrate Court is entirely different 
from the property described in the schedule to the Petition filed in the Court of Appeal. 

24. To  elaborate,  in  averment  No.  4  of  the  Petition,  the  Petitioner  stated  that  the  case 
instituted in the Magistrate Court of Kandy relates to premises bearing assessment No. 
429,  Katugasthota  Road.  It  is  further  stated  that  the  subject  matter  before  the 
Magistrate Court is described in the schedule to this petition. However, in the schedule 
to  the  instant  Revision  Application,  assessment  No.  429  is  not  mentioned.  Instead,  it 
describes  Lot  1  of  Ginihapuwehena  and  Galkadullehena  in  plan  No.  878,  dated 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
13.11.2016, along with the building bearing assessment No. 3098 as the subject matter. 
Thus,  the  Petitioner’s  own  averments  in  the  Revision  Application  contradict  his  stated 
position. 

25. It is noteworthy that when two different properties are mentioned in the schedules to 
the  petitions  filed  in  the  Magistrate  Court  and  the  Court  of  Appeal,  no  determination 
can  be  reached  with  certainty  regarding  possession.  Moreover,  the  Petitioner  filed  a 
Revision Application seeking to have the Order dated 03.10.2021, issued by the learned 
High Court Judge of Kandy, set aside. Therefore, when the subject matter referred to in 
the  Petition  filed  in  the  Magistrate  Court  is  entirely  different  from  the  subject  matter 
mentioned in the schedule to the Petition filed in the Court of Appeal, the  Petitioner’s 
Revision Application is bound to fail.  

26. Furthermore,  the  Order  challenged  by  the  Petitioner  in  this  Revision  Application  was 
delivered by the High Court while exercising its revisionary jurisdiction. In other words, 
through this application, the Petitioner seeks to set aside the Order made in a previous 
revision  application.  To  that  end,  the  Petitioner  invites  this  Court  to  exercise  its 
revisionary  jurisdiction  over  the  order  of  the  High  Court  of  the  Provinces,  which  was 
issued in the exercise of its own revisionary jurisdiction under Article 154P(3)(b) of the 
Constitution. 

27. Notably,  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  advance  any  valid  reason  as  to  why  he  invoked 
revisionary jurisdiction instead of appellate jurisdiction. The  Petitioner could have filed 
an appeal against the Order of the High Court, yet he chose to file a revision application. 

28. When filing a revision application instead of an appeal in Sri Lanka, the Petitioner must 
provide  sufficient  reasons  for  the  revision.  This  is  particularly  important  because  a 
revision  application  is  an  exceptional  remedy  that  is  not  commonly  granted,  and  it 
generally  deals  with  jurisdictional  errors  or  unique  circumstances  surrounding  the 
original court's decision.  

29. Further,  the  courts  do  not  exercise  its  revisionary  jurisdiction  where  there  is  an 
alternative  remedy,  unless  there  are  ‘exceptional  circumstances’  which  warrants  the 
invocation of the revisionary jurisdiction of the court. 

30. A  similar  view  was  held  in  Gunasekera  v  Chitra  Silva  and  Others  [2006]  3  Sri  LR  188 

where it was held;  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Where  an  alternative  remedy  is  available  and  if  a  party  fails  and  or  neglects  to 
exercise such remedy due to the parties’ own conduct and or negligence court will 
not exercise the extraordinary powers of revision. However, when the party is able to 
show  exceptional  circumstances,  Court  will  not  hesitate  to  exercise  such 
jurisdiction.” 

31. In Ishak V. Laxman Perera Director of Customs and Others [2003] 3 Sri LR 18 it was held 

as follows; 

“Where  there  is  an  alternative  procedure  which  will  provide  the  applicant  with  a 
satisfactory  remedy,  the  Courts  will  usually  insist  on  an  applicant  exhausting  that 
remedy  before  seeking  judicial  review.  In  doing  so  the  Court  is  coming  to  a 
discretionary decision.” Where there is a choice of another separate process outside 
the  Courts,  a  true  question  for  the  exercise  of  discretion  exists.  For  the  Court  to 
require the alternative procedure to be exhausted prior to resorting to judicial review 
is in accord with the judicial review being properly regarded as being a remedy of last 
resort. It is important that the process should not be clogged with unnecessary cases, 
which are perfectly capable of being dealt with in another tribunal. It can also be the 
situation that Parliament, by establishing an alternative procedure, indicated either 
expressly or by implication that it intends that procedure to be used, in exercising its 
discretion the Court will attach importance to the indication of Parliament intention.” 

32. Furthermore,  it  is  important  to  emphasize  that  Courts  exercise  revisionary  jurisdiction 
only  in  ‘exceptional  circumstances’  that  justify  the  exercise  of  judicial  discretion. 
Therefore, the Petitioner must establish the existence of such exceptional circumstances 
that shock the conscience of the Court. In this regard, following authorities would be of 
much relevance: 

33. In Dharmaratne and Another v Palm Paradise Cabanas Ltd. and Others [2003] 3 Sri LR 

24 (at pg. 30), it was held; 

“The practice of Court to insist on the existence of exceptional circumstances for the 
exercise of revisionary powers has taken deep root in our law and has got hardened 
into a rule which should not be lightly disturbed. The words used by the legislature do 
not indicate that it ever intended to interfere with this ‘rule of practice’.”  

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34. Further, in Wijesinghe v Tharmaratnam Sri Skantha’s Law Reports Vol. IV 47 (at pg. 49) it 

was held;  

“Revision  is  a  discretionary  remedy  and  will  not  be  available  unless  the  application 
discloses circumstances which ‘shocks the conscience of the court’.”  

35. Therefore, a petitioner must establish ‘exceptional circumstances’ by expressly pleading 
such  grounds  in  their  revision  application  to  invoke  the  court’s  discretion.  However,  in 
the  present  Application,  the  Petitioner  has  failed  to  plead  any  such  exceptional 
circumstances. 

CONCLUSION 

36. In  the  final  analysis,  for  the  reasons  discussed  in  the  preceding  paragraphs  of  this 
judgment,  I  dismiss  the  Petitioner’s  Revision  Application  with  costs  in  the  sum  of  Rs 
25000/- 

                                                                                                Judge of the Court of Appeal 

Hon. M. Ahsan R. Marikar, J.(CA) 
I agree. 

                                                                                                Judge of the Court of Appeal 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                    
 
 
 
